The beginning of the Good News of Jesus Christ  the Son of God.
As  it is written in Isaiah the Prophet, "See, I am sending My messenger before Thee, Who will prepare Thy way";
"The voice of one  crying aloud: `In the Desert prepare a road for the Lord: Make His highways straight.'"
So John  the Baptizer came, and was in the Desert proclaiming a baptism of  the penitent for forgiveness of sins.
There went out to him people  of all classes from Judaea, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem of all ranks, and  were baptized by him  in the river Jordan, making open confession of their sins.
As for John, his garment was of camel's hair, and he wore a loincloth of leather; and his food was locusts and wild honey.
His announcement was, "There is One coming after me mightier than I--One whose sandal-strap I am unworthy to stoop down and unfasten.
I have baptized you with water, but He will baptize you  with the Holy Spirit."
At that time Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan;
and  immediately on His coming up out of the water He saw an opening in the sky, and the Spirit like a  dove coming down  to Him;
and a voice came from the sky, saying, "Thou art My Son dearly loved: in Thee is My delight."
At once the Spirit impelled Him to go out into the Desert,
where He remained for forty days, tempted by Satan; and He was among the wild beasts, but the angels waited upon Him.
Then, after John had been  thrown into prison, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming God's Good News.
"The time has fully come," He said, "and the Kingdom of God is close at hand: repent, and believe this Good News.
One day, passing along the shore of the Lake of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew, Simon's brother, throwing their nets in the Lake; for they were fisherman.
"Come and follow me," said Jesus, "and I will make you fishers for men."
At once they left their nets and followed Him.
Going on a little further He saw James the son of Zabdi and his brother John: they also were in the boat mending the nets, and He immediately called them.
They  therefore left their father Zabdi in the boat with the hired men, and went and followed Him.
So they came to Capernaum, and on the next Sabbath He went to the synagogue and began to teach.
The people listened with amazement to His teaching--for there was authority about it: it was very different from that of the Scribes--
when all at once, there in their synagogue, a man  under the power of a foul spirit screamed out:
"What have you to do with us, Jesus the Nazarene? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are--God's Holy One."
But Jesus reprimanded him, saying, "Silence! come out of him."
So the foul spirit, after throwing the man into convulsions, came out of him with a loud cry.
And all were  amazed and awe-struck, so they began to ask one another, "What does this mean? Here is a new sort of teaching--and a tone of authority! And even to foul spirits he issues orders and they obey him!"
And His fame spread at once everywhere in all that part of Galilee.
Then on leaving the synagogue  they came at once, with James and John, to the house of Simon and Andrew.
Now Simon's mother-in-law was ill in bed with a fever, and without delay they informed Him about her.
So He went to her, and taking her  hand He raised her to her feet: the fever left her, and she began to wait upon them.
When it was evening, after sunset people came bringing Him all who were sick and the demoniacs;
and the whole town was assembled at the door.
Then He cured numbers of people who were ill with various diseases, and He drove out many demons; not allowing the demons to speak, because they knew  who He was.
In the morning He rose early, while it was still quite dark, and leaving the house He went away to a solitary place and there prayed.
And Simon and the others searched everywhere for Him.
When they found Him they said, "Every one is looking for you."
"Let us go elsewhere, to the neighbouring country towns," He replied, "that I may proclaim my Message there also; because for that purpose I came from God."
And He went through all Galilee, preaching in the synagogues and expelling the demons.
One day there came a leper to Jesus entreating Him, and pleading on his knees. "If you are willing," he said, "you are able to cleanse me."
Moved with pity Jesus reached out His hand and touched him. "I am willing," He said; "be cleansed."
The leprosy at once  left him, and he was cleansed.
Jesus at once sent him away, strictly charging him,
and saying, "Be careful not to tell any one, but go and show yourself to the Priest, and for your purification present the offerings that Moses appointed as evidence for them."
But the man, when he went out, began to tell every one and to publish the matter abroad, so that it was no longer possible for Jesus to go openly into  any town; but He had to remain outside in unfrequented places, where people came to Him from all parts.
