When they were getting near Jerusalem and had arrived at Bethphage and Bethany, on the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples on in front, with these instructions.
"Go," He said, "to the village facing you, and immediately on entering it you will find an ass's foal tied up which no one has ever yet ridden: untie him and bring him here.
And if any one asks you, `Why are you doing that?' say, `The Master needs it, and will send it back here without delay.'"
So they went and found a young ass tied up at the front door of a house. They were untying it,
when some of the bystanders called out, "What are you doing, untying the foal?"
But on their giving the answer that Jesus had bidden them give, they let them take it.
So they brought the foal to Jesus, and threw their outer garments over him; and Jesus mounted.
Then many spread their outer garments to carpet the road, and others leafy branches which they had cut down  in the fields;
while those who led the way and those who followed kept shouting "God save Him!" Blessed be He who comes in the Lord's name.
Blessings on the coming Kingdom of our forefather David! God in the highest Heavens save Him!"
So He came into Jerusalem and into  the Temple; and after looking round upon everything there, the hour being now late He went out to Bethany with the Twelve.
The next day, after they had left Bethany, He was hungry.
But in the distance He saw a fig-tree in full leaf, and went to see whether perhaps He could find some figs on it. When however He came to it, He found nothing but leaves (for it was  not fig time);
and He said to the tree, "Let no one ever again eat fruit from thee!" And His disciples heard this.
They reached Jerusalem, and entering the Temple He began to drive out the buyers and sellers, and upset the money-changers' tables and the stools of the pigeon-dealers,
and would not allow any one to carry  anything through the Temple.
And He remonstrated with them. "Is it not written," He said, "`My House shall be called The House of Prayer for all the nations?' But you  have made it what it now is--a robbers' cave."
This the High Priests and Scribes heard, and they began to devise means to destroy Him. For they were afraid of Him, because of the deep impression produced on all the people by His teaching.
When evening came on, Jesus and His disciples used to leave the city.
In the early morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig-tree withered to the roots;
and Peter, recollecting, said to Him, "Look, Rabbi, the fig-tree which you cursed is withered up."
Jesus said to them, "Have faith in God.
In solemn truth I tell you that if any one shall say to this mountain, `Remove, and hurl thyself into the sea,' and has no doubt about it in his heart, but stedfastly believes that what he says will happen, it shall be granted him.
That is why I tell you, as to whatever you pray and make request for, if you believe that you have received it it shall be yours.
But whenever you stand praying, if you have a grievance against any one, forgive it, so that your Father in Heaven may also forgive you your offences."
I\I
They came again to Jerusalem; and as He was walking in the Temple, the High Priests, Scribes and Elders came to Him
and asked,  "By what authority are you doing these things? and who gave you authority to do them?"
"And I will put a question to you," replied Jesus; "answer me, and then I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
John's Baptism--was it of Heavenly or of human origin? Answer me."
So they debated the matter with one another. "Suppose we say, `Heavenly,'" they argued, "he will ask, `Why then did you not believe him?'
Or should we say, `human?'" They were afraid of the people; for all agreed in holding John to have been really a Prophet.
So they answered Jesus, "We do not know." "Nor do I tell you," said Jesus, "by what authority I do these things."
