When the Sabbath was over, Mary of Magdala, Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, in order to come and anoint  His body.
So, very soon after sunrise on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb;
and they were saying to one another, `Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance to the tomb?"
But then, looking up, they saw that the stone was already rolled back:  for it was of immense size.
Upon entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting at their right hand, clothed in a long white robe. They were astonished and terrified.
But he said to them, "Do not be terrified. It is Jesus you are looking for--the Nazarene who has been crucified. He has  come back to life: He is not here: this is the place where they laid Him.
But go and tell His disciples and Peter that He is going before you into Galilee: and that there you will see Him, as He told you."
So they came out, and fled from the tomb, for they were greatly agitated and surprised; and they said not a word to any one, for they were afraid.
IBut He rose to life early on the first day of the week, and appeared first to Mary of Magdala from whom He had expelled seven demons.
She went and brought the tidings to those who had been with Him, as they were mourning and weeping.
But they, when they were told that He was alive and that she had seen Him, could not believe it.
Afterwards He showed Himself in another form to two of them as they were walking, on their way into the country.
These, again, went and told the news to the rest; but not even them did they believe.
Later still He showed Himself to the Eleven themselves whilst they were at table, and He upbraided them with their unbelief and obstinacy in not having believed those who had seen Him alive.
Then He said to them, "Go the whole world over, and proclaim the Good News to all  mankind.
He who believes and is baptized shall be saved, but he who disbelieves will be condemned.
And signs shall attend those who believe, even such as these. By making use of my name they shall expel demons. They shall speak  new languages.
They shall take up venomous snakes, and if they drink any deadly poison it shall do them no harm whatever. They shall lay their hands on the sick, and the sick shall recover."
So the Lord  Jesus after having thus spoken to them was taken up into Heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God.
But they went out and made proclamation everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming their Message by the signs which accompanied it.\I
