He went on to say, "In solemn truth I tell you that some of those who  are standing here will certainly not taste death till they have seen the Kingdom of God  already come  in power."
Six days later, Jesus took with Him Peter, James, and John, and brought them alone, apart from the rest, up a high mountain; and in their presence His appearance underwent a change.
His garments also became dazzling with brilliant whiteness--such whiteness as no bleaching on earth could give.
Moreover there appeared to them Elijah accompanied by Moses; and the two were conversing with Jesus,
when  Peter said to Jesus, "Rabbi,  we are thankful to you that we are here. Let us put up three  tents--one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah."
For he knew not what  to say: they were filled with such awe.
Then there came a cloud  spreading over them, and a voice issued from the cloud, "This is my Son, dearly loved: listen to Him."
Instantly they looked round, and now they could no longer see any one, but themselves and Jesus.
As they were coming down from the mountain, He very strictly forbad them to tell any one what they had seen "until after the Son of Man has risen from among the dead."
So they kept the matter to themselves, although frequently asking one another what was meant by the rising from the dead.
They also asked Him, "How is it that the Scribes say that Elijah must first come?"
"Elijah," He replied, "does indeed come first and reforms everything; but how is it that it is written of the Son of Man that He will endure much suffering and be held in contempt?
Yet I tell you that not only has Elijah come, but they have also done to him whatever they chose, as the Scriptures say about him."
As they came to rejoin the disciples, they saw an immense crowd surrounding them and a party of Scribes disputing with them.
Immediately the whole multitude on beholding Him were  astonished and awe-struck, and yet they ran forward and  greeted Him.
"What is the subject you are discussing?" He asked them.
"Rabbi," answered one of the crowd,  "I have brought you my son. He has a dumb spirit in him;
and wherever it comes upon him, it  dashes him to the ground, and he foams at the mouth and grinds his teeth, and he is pining away. I  begged your disciples to expel it, but they had not the power."
"O unbelieving generation!" replied Jesus; "how long must I be with you? how long must I have patience with you? Bring the boy to me."
So they brought him to Jesus. And the spirit,  when he saw Jesus, immediately threw the youth into convulsions, so that he fell on the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth.
Then Jesus asked the father, "How long has he been like this?" "From early childhood," he said;
"and often it has thrown him into the fire  or into  pools of water to destroy him. But, if you possibly can, have pity on us and help us."
"`If I possibly can!'" replied Jesus; "why, everything is possible to him who believes."
Immediately the father  cried out, "I do believe: strengthen my weak faith."
Then Jesus, seeing that an increasing crowd was running towards Him, rebuked the foul spirit, and said to it, "Dumb and deaf spirit, *I* command you, come out of him and never enter into him again."
So with a loud cry he threw the boy into fit after fit, and came out. The boy looked as if he were dead, so that most of them said  he was dead;
but Jesus took his hand and raised him up, and he stood on his feet.
After the return of Jesus  to the house His disciples asked Him privately, "How is it that we could not expel the spirit?"
"An evil spirit of this kind," He answered, "can only be driven out  by prayer."
Departing thence they passed through Galilee, and He was unwilling that any one should know it;
for He was teaching His disciples, and telling them, "The Son of Man is to be betrayed into the hands of men, and they will put Him to death; and after being put to death, in three days He will rise to life again."
They, however, did not understand what He meant, and were afraid to question Him.
So they came to Capernaum; and when in the house He asked them, "What were you arguing about on the way?"
But they remained silent; for on the way they had debated with one another who was the chief of them.
Then sitting down He called the Twelve, and said to them, "If any one wishes to be first,  he must be last of all and servant of all."
And taking a young child He made him stand in their midst, then threw His arms round him and said,
"Whoever  for my sake receives one such young child as this, receives me; and whoever receives me, receives not so much me as Him who sent me."
"Rabbi,"  said John to Him, "we saw a  man making use of your name to expel demons, and we tried to hinder him,  on the ground that he did not follow us."
"You should not have tried to hinder him," replied Jesus, "for there is no one who will use my name to perform a miracle and be able the next minute to speak evil of me.
He who is not against us is for us;
and whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ, I solemnly tell you that he will certainly not lose his reward.
"And whoever shall occasion the fall of one of these little ones who  believe, he would be better off if, with a  millstone round his neck, he were  lying at the bottom of the sea.
If your hand should  cause you to sin, cut it off: it would be better for you to enter into Life maimed, than remain in possession of both your hands and go away into Gehenna, into the  fire which cannot be put out.
I\I
Or if your foot  should cause you to sin, cut it off: it would be better for you to enter into Life crippled, than remain in possession of both your feet and be thrown into Gehenna.
I\I
Or if your eye  should cause you to sin, tear it out. It would be better for you to enter into the Kingdom of God half-blind than remain in possession of two eyes and be thrown into Gehenna,
where their worm does not die and the fire does not go out.
Every one,  however, will be salted  with fire.
Salt is a good thing, but if the salt should become tasteless, what will you use to give it saltness? Have salt within you and live at peace with one another."
