Now there was a certain \man\ sick, Lazarus of Bethany, of  the village of Mary and Martha her sister.
It was \the\ Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and  wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
The sisters therefore sent to him, saying, Lord, behold, he  whom thou lovest is sick.
But when Jesus heard \it\, he said, This sickness is not  unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may  be glorified by it.
Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
When therefore he heard, He is sick, he remained two days  then in the place where he was.
Then after this he says to his disciples, Let us go into  Judaea again.
The disciples say to him, Rabbi, \even but\ now the Jews  sought to stone thee, and goest thou thither again?
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If  any one walk in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees  the light of this world;
but if any one walk in the night, he stumbles, because the  light is not in him.
These things said he; and after this he says to them,  Lazarus, our friend, is fallen asleep, but I go that I may  awake him out of sleep.
The disciples therefore said to him, Lord, if he be fallen  asleep, he will get well.
But Jesus spoke of his death, but *they* thought that he  spoke of the rest of sleep.
Jesus therefore then said to them plainly, Lazarus has  died.
And I rejoice on your account that I was not there, in  order that ye may believe. But let us go to him.
Thomas therefore, called Didymus, said to his fellow  disciples, Let *us* also go, that we may die with him.
Jesus therefore \on\ arriving found him to have been four  days already in the tomb.
Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia off,
and many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary, that they  might console them concerning their brother.
Martha then, when she heard Jesus is coming, went to meet  him; but Mary sat in the house.
Martha therefore said to Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been  here, my brother had not died;
but even now I know, that whatsoever thou shalt ask of  God, God will give thee.
Jesus says to her, Thy brother shall rise again.
Martha says to him, I know that he will rise again in the  resurrection in the last day.
Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life: he  that believes on me, though he have died, shall live;
and every one who lives and believes on me shall never  die. Believest thou this?
She says to him, Yea, Lord; I believe that thou art the  Christ, the Son of God, who should come into the world.
And having said this, she went away and called her sister  Mary secretly, saying, The teacher is come and calls thee.
She, when she heard \that\, rises up quickly and comes to  him.
Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was in  the place where Martha came to meet him.
The Jews therefore who were with her in the house and  consoling her, seeing Mary that she rose up quickly and went  out, followed her, saying, She goes to the tomb, that she may  weep there.
Mary therefore, when she came where Jesus was, seeing him,  fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if thou hadst been here,  my brother had not died.
Jesus therefore, when he saw her weeping, and the Jews who  came with her weeping, was deeply moved in spirit, and was  troubled,
and said, Where have ye put him? They say to him, Lord,  come and see.
Jesus wept.
The Jews therefore said, Behold how he loved him!
And some of them said, Could not this \man\, who has  opened the eyes of the blind \man\, have caused that this \man\  also should not have died?
Jesus therefore, again deeply moved in himself, comes to  the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.
Jesus says, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the  dead, says to him, Lord, he stinks already, for he is four days  \there\.
Jesus says to her, Did I not say to thee, that if thou  shouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?
They took therefore the stone away. And Jesus lifted up  his eyes on high and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast  heard me;
but I knew that thou always hearest me; but on account of  the crowd who stand around I have said \it\, that they may  believe that thou hast sent me.
And having said this, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus,  come forth.
And the dead came forth, bound feet and hands with  graveclothes, and his face was bound round with a handkerchief.  Jesus says to them, Loose him and let him go.
Many therefore of the Jews who came to Mary and saw what  he had done, believed on him;
but some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what  Jesus had done.
The chief priests, therefore, and the Pharisees gathered a  council, and said, What do we? for this man does many signs.
If we let him thus alone, all will believe on him, and the  Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation.
But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest  that year, said to them, Ye know nothing
nor consider that it is profitable for you that one man  die for the people, and not that the whole nation perish.
But this he did not say of himself; but, being high priest  that year, prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the  nation;
and not for the nation only, but that he should also  gather together into one the children of God who were scattered  abroad.
From that day therefore they took counsel that they might  kill him.
Jesus therefore walked no longer openly among the Jews,  but went away thence into the country near the desert, to a  city called Ephraim, and there he sojourned with the disciples.
But the passover of the Jews was near, and many went up to  Jerusalem out of the country before the passover, that they  might purify themselves.
They sought therefore Jesus, and said among themselves,  standing in the temple, What do ye think? that he will not come  to the feast?
Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given  commandment that if any one knew where he was, he should make  it known, that they might take him.
