These things Jesus spoke, and lifted up his eyes to heaven  and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy  Son may glorify thee;
as thou hast given him authority over all flesh, that \as  to\ all that thou hast given to him, he should give them life  eternal.
And this is the eternal life, that they should know thee,  the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent.
I have glorified *thee* on the earth, I have completed the  work which thou gavest me that I should do it;
and now glorify *me*, *thou* Father, along with thyself,  with the glory which I had along with thee before the world  was.
I have manifested thy name to the men whom thou gavest me  out of the world. They were thine, and thou gavest them me, and  they have kept thy word.
Now they have known that all things that thou hast given me  are of thee;
for the words which thou hast given me I have given them,  and they have received \them\, and have known truly that I came  out from thee, and have believed that thou sentest me.
I demand concerning them; I do not demand concerning the  world, but concerning those whom thou hast given me, for they  are thine,
(and all that is mine is thine, and \all\ that is thine  mine,) and I am glorified in them.
And I am no longer in the world, and these are in the  world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name  which thou hast given me, that they may be one as we.
When I was with them I kept them in thy name; those thou  hast given me I have guarded, and not one of them has perished,  but the son of perdition, that the scripture might be  fulfilled.
And now I come to thee. And these things I speak in the  world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in them.
I have given them thy word, and the world has hated them,  because they are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
I do not demand that thou shouldest take them out of the  world, but that thou shouldest keep them out of evil.
They are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
Sanctify them by the truth: thy word is truth.
As thou hast sent me into the world, I also have sent them  into the world;
and I sanctify myself for them, that they also may be  sanctified by truth.
And I do not demand for these only, but also for those who  believe on me through their word;
that they may be all one, as thou, Father, \art\ in me,  and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world  may believe that thou hast sent me.
And the glory which thou hast given me I have given them,  that they may be one, as we are one;
I in them and thou in me, that they may be perfected into  one \and\ that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and  \that\ thou hast loved them as thou hast loved me.
Father, \as to\ those whom thou hast given me, I desire  that where I am they also may be with me, that they may behold  my glory which thou hast given me, for thou lovedst me before  \the\ foundation of \the\ world.
Righteous Father, -- and the world has not known thee, but  I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me.
And I have made known to them thy name, and will make \it\  known; that the love with which thou hast loved me may be in  them and I in them.
