And on the third day a marriage took place in Cana of  Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there.
And Jesus also, and his disciples, were invited to the  marriage.
And wine being deficient, the mother of Jesus says to him,  They have no wine.
Jesus says to her, What have I to do with thee, woman? mine  hour has not yet come.
His mother says to the servants, Whatever he may say to you,  do.
Now there were standing there six stone water-vessels,  according to the purification of the Jews, holding two or three  measures each.
Jesus says to them, Fill the water-vessels with water. And  they filled them up to the brim.
And he says to them, Draw out now, and carry \it\ to the  feast-master. And they carried \it\.
But when the feast-master had tasted the water which had  been made wine (and knew not whence it was, but the servants  knew who drew the water), the feast-master calls the  bridegroom,
and says to him, Every man sets on first the good wine, and  when \men\ have well drunk, then the inferior; thou hast kept  the good wine till now.
This beginning of signs did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and  manifested his glory; and his disciples believed on him.
After this he descended to Capernaum, he and his mother and  his brethren and his disciples; and there they abode not many  days.
And the passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to  Jerusalem.
And he found in the temple the sellers of oxen and sheep  and doves, and the money-changers sitting;
and, having made a scourge of cords, he cast \them\ all out  of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and he poured out  the change of the money-changers, and overturned the tables,
and said to the sellers of doves, Take these things hence;  make not my Father`s house a house of merchandise.
\And\ his disciples remembered that it is written, The zeal  of thy house devours me.
The Jews therefore answered and said to him, What sign  shewest thou to us, that thou doest these things?
Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, and  in three days I will raise it up.
The Jews therefore said, Forty and six years was this  temple building, and thou wilt raise it up in three days?
But *he* spoke of the temple of his body.
When therefore he was raised from among \the\ dead, his  disciples remembered that he had said this, and believed the  scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken.
And when he was in Jerusalem, at the passover, at the  feast, many believed on his name, beholding his signs which he  wrought.
But Jesus himself did not trust himself to them, because he  knew all \men\,
and that he had not need that any should testify of man,  for himself knew what was in man.
