And the Philistines assembled their armies to battle, and  were gathered together at Sochoh, which belongs to Judah, and  encamped between Sochoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and  encamped in the valley of terebinths, and set the battle in  array against the Philistines.
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side,  and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side; and the  ravine was between them.
And there went out a champion from the camp of the  Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six  cubits and a span.
And he had a helmet of bronze upon his head, and he was  clothed with a corselet of scales; and the weight of the  corselet was five thousand shekels of bronze.
And he had greaves of bronze upon his legs, and a javelin  of bronze between his shoulders.
And the shaft of his spear was like a weaver`s beam; and  his spear`s head weighed six hundred shekels of iron; and the  shield-bearer went before him.
And he stood and cried to the ranks of Israel, and said to  them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I  the Philistine, and ye servants of Saul? choose for yourselves  a man, and let him come down to me.
If he be able to fight with me, and to smite me, then will  we be your servants; but if I overcome and smite him, then  shall ye be our servants and serve us.
And the Philistine said, I have defied the ranks of Israel  this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.
And Saul and all Israel heard these words of the  Philistine, and they were dismayed and greatly afraid.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of  Bethlehem-Judah whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons;  and the man was old in the days of Saul, advanced \in years\  among men.
And the three eldest of the sons of Jesse had gone and  followed Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons  that went to the battle were Eliab the firstborn, and the  second to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
And David was the youngest; and the three eldest had  followed Saul.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father`s  sheep at Bethlehem.
And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and  presented himself forty days.
And Jesse said to David his son, Take, I pray, for thy  brethren, this ephah of parched \corn\ and these ten loaves,  and carry them quickly to the camp to thy brethren;
and carry these ten cheeses to the captain of the  thousand, and visit thy brethren to see how they are, and take  a pledge of them.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel \were\ in  the valley of terebinths, fighting against the Philistines.
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep  with a keeper, and took his charge and went, as Jesse had  commanded him. And he came to the wagon-defence; and the host  which was going forth to the battle-array shouted for the  fight.
And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array,  rank against rank.
And David left the things he was carrying in the hand of  the keeper of the baggage, and ran into the ranks, and came and  saluted his brethren.
And as he talked with them, behold there came up the  champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the  ranks of the Philistines, and spoke according to the same  words; and David heard \them\.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled  from him and were greatly afraid.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that  comes up? for to defy Israel is he come up: and it shall be,  that the man who smites him, him will the king enrich with  great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his  father`s house free in Israel.
And David spoke to the men that stood by him, saying, What  shall be done to the man that smites this Philistine, and takes  away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised  Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?
And the people told him after this manner, saying, So  shall it be done to the man that smites him.
And Eliab, his eldest brother, heard while he spoke to the  men; and Eliab`s anger was kindled against David, and he said,  Why art thou come down? and with whom hast thou left those few  sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the naughtiness  of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the  battle.
And David said, What have I now done? Was it not laid upon  me?
And he turned from him to another, and spoke after the  same manner; and the people answered him again after the former  manner.
And the words were heard which David spoke, and they  rehearsed them before Saul; and he sent for him.
And David said to Saul, Let no man`s heart fail because of  him: thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine.
And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against  this Philistine to fight with him; for thou art but a youth,  and he a man of war from his youth.
And David said to Saul, Thy servant fed his father`s  sheep, and there came a lion, and also a bear, and took a lamb  out of the flock.
And I went after him, and smote him, and delivered it out  of his mouth; and when he arose against me, I seized him by his  beard, and smote him, and slew him.
Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear; and this  uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, because he  has defied the armies of the living God.
And David said, Jehovah who delivered me out of the paw of  the lion and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out  of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Go, and  Jehovah be with thee.
And Saul clothed David with his dress, and put a helmet of  bronze upon his head, and clothed him with a corselet.
And David girded his sword upon his dress, and endeavoured  to go; for he had not yet tried \it\. And David said to Saul, I  cannot go in these; for I have never tried \them\. And David  put them off him.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five  smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the shepherd`s  bag that he had, into the pocket; and his sling was in his  hand. And he drew near to the Philistine.
And the Philistine came on and approached David; and the  man that bore the shield was before him.
And when the Philistine looked about and saw David, he  disdained him; for he was a youth, and ruddy, and besides of a  beautiful countenance.
And the Philistine said to David, Am I a dog, that thou  comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by  his gods.
And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will  give thy flesh to the fowls of the heavens and to the beasts of  the field.
And David said to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with  sword, and with spear, and with javelin; but I come to thee in  the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel,  whom thou hast defied.
This day will Jehovah deliver thee up into my hand; and I  will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give  the carcases of the camp of the Philistines this day to the  fowl of the heavens and to the wild beasts of the earth. And  all the earth shall know that Israel has a God;
and all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saves  not with sword and spear; for the battle is Jehovah`s, and he  will give you into our hands.
And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came  and advanced to meet David, that David hasted, and ran towards  the ranks to meet the Philistine.
And David put his hand into the bag, and took thence a  stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead,  and the stone sank into his forehead; and he fell on his face  to the earth.
So David overcame the Philistine with a sling and a stone,  and smote the Philistine and killed him; and there was no sword  in the hand of David.
And David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his  sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and killed him  completely, and cut off his head with it. And when the  Philistines saw that their hero was dead, they fled.
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and  pursued the Philistines, until thou comest to the ravine and to  the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell  down on the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath, and to Ekron.
And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the  Philistines, and they pillaged their camps.
And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it  to Jerusalem; but he put his armour in his tent.
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine,  he said to Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is  this young man? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I  cannot tell.
And the king said, Inquire thou whose son this youth is.
And as David returned from the slaughter of the  Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with  the head of the Philistine in his hand.
And Saul said to him, Whose son art thou, young man? And  David said, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the  Beth-lehemite.
