And the boy Samuel ministered to Jehovah before Eli. And the  word of Jehovah was rare in those days; a vision was not  frequent.
And it came to pass at that time, when Eli lay in his place  (now his eyes began to grow dim, he could not see),
and the lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel lay in  the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was,
that Jehovah called to Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
And he ran to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst  me. And he said, I did not call: lie down again. And he went  and lay down.
And Jehovah called again, Samuel! And Samuel arose and went  to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said,  I did not call, my son: lie down again.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither had the word of  Jehovah yet been revealed to him.
And Jehovah called again the third time, Samuel! And he  arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst  me. And Eli perceived that Jehovah was calling the boy.
And Eli said to Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he  call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant  heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at the other  times, Samuel, Samuel! And Samuel said, Speak, for thy servant  heareth.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel,  at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall  tingle.
In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have  spoken concerning his house; I will begin and make an end.
For I have declared to him that I will judge his house for  ever, for the iniquity which he hath known: because his sons  made themselves vile, and he restrained them not.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli that the  iniquity of Eli`s house shall not be expiated with sacrifice or  oblation for ever.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of  the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to declare the vision  to Eli.
And Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he  said, Here am I.
And he said, What is the word that he has spoken to thee? I  pray thee, keep it not back from me: God do so to thee, and  more also, if thou keep back anything from me of all the word  that he spoke to thee.
And Samuel told him all the words, and kept nothing back  from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do what is good  in his sight.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of  his words fall to the ground.
And all Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that  Samuel was established a prophet of Jehovah.
And Jehovah appeared again at Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed  himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
