Israel is an unpruned vine, he bringeth forth fruit unto  himself: according to the abundance of his fruit he hath  multiplied altars; according to the goodness of his land they  have made goodly statues.
Their heart is divided; now shall they be found guilty: he  will break down their altars, he will destroy their statues.
For now they will say, We have no king, for we feared not  Jehovah; and a king, what can he do for us?
They speak \mere\ words, swearing falsely in making a  covenant; therefore shall judgment spring up as hemlock in the  furrows of the fields.
The inhabitants of Samaria shall fear because of the calf  of Beth-aven; for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and  the idolatrous priests thereof shall tremble for it, for its  glory, because it is departed from it.
Yea, it shall be carried unto Assyria \as\ a present for  king Jareb: Ephraim shall be seized with shame, and Israel  shall be ashamed of his own counsel.
As for Samaria her king is cut off as chips upon the face  of the waters.
And the high places of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be  destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up upon their  altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us! and to  the hills, Fall on us!
From the days of Gibeah hast thou sinned, O Israel: there  they stood: the battle in Gibeah against the children of  iniquity did not overtake them.
At my pleasure will I chastise them; and the peoples shall  be assembled against them, when they are bound for their two  iniquities.
And Ephraim is a trained heifer, that loveth to tread out  \the corn\; I have passed over upon her fair neck: I will make  Ephraim to draw; Judah shall plough, Jacob shall break his  clods.
Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to  mercy; break up your fallow ground: for it is time to seek  Jehovah, till he come and rain righteousness upon you.
Ye have ploughed wickedness, reaped iniquity, eaten the  fruit of lies; for thou didst confide in thy way, in the  multitude of thy mighty men.
And a tumult shall arise among thy peoples, and all thy  fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Beth-arbel in  the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces with the  children.
So shall Bethel do unto you because of the wickedness of  your wickedness: at day-break shall the king of Israel utterly  be cut off.
