Rejoice not, Israel, exultingly, as the peoples; for thou  hast gone a whoring from thy God, thou hast loved harlot`s hire  upon every corn-floor.
The floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new  wine shall fail her.
They shall not dwell in Jehovah`s land; but Ephraim shall  return to Egypt, and in Assyria shall they eat that which is  unclean.
They shall pour out no \offerings of\ wine to Jehovah,  neither shall their sacrifices be pleasing unto him: they shall  be unto them as the bread of mourners; all that eat thereof  shall be defiled: for their bread shall be for themselves; it  shall not come into the house of Jehovah.
What will ye do in the day of assembly, and in the day of  the feast of Jehovah?
For behold, they are gone away because of destruction: Egypt  shall gather them up, Moph shall bury them: their pleasant  things of silver, nettles shall possess them; thorns shall be  in their tents.
The days of visitation are come; the days of recompence are  come: Israel shall know \it\: the prophet is a fool, the  inspired man is mad, because of the greatness of thine  iniquity, and the great enmity.
Is Ephraim a watchman with my God? \nay\ the prophet is a  fowler`s snare on all his ways, enmity in the house of his God.
They have deeply corrupted themselves as in the days of  Gibeah. He will remember their iniquity, he will visit their  sins.
I found Israel as grapes in the wilderness; as first-ripe  fruit on the fig-tree, I saw your fathers at the beginning:  they went to Baal-Peor, and separated themselves unto that  shame, and became abominations like their lover.
As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away as a bird, -- no  birth, no pregnancy, no conception!
For even should they bring up their children, yet will I  bereave them, \that\ not a man \remain\: for woe also to them  when I shall have departed from them!
Ephraim, as I saw \him\, was a Tyre planted in a beautiful  place; but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the  slayer.
Give them, Jehovah -- what wilt thou give? -- give them a  miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
All their wickedness is in Gilgal; for there I hated them:  because of the wickedness of their doings, I will drive them  out of my house, I will love them no more: all their princes  are rebellious.
Ephraim is smitten: their root is dried up, they shall bear  no fruit; yea, though they should bring forth, yet will I slay  the beloved \fruit\ of their womb.
My God hath rejected them, because they hearkened not unto  him; and they shall be wanderers among the nations.
