In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash began to reign; and he  reigned forty years in Jerusalem; and his mother`s name was  Zibiah of Beer-sheba.
And Jehoash did what was right in the sight of Jehovah, all  the days wherein Jehoiada the priest instructed him.
Only, the high places were not removed: the people still  sacrificed and burned incense on the high places.
And Jehoash said to the priests, All the money of the  hallowed things that is brought into the house of Jehovah, the  money of every one that passes \the account\, the money at  which every man is valued, \and\ all the money that comes into  any man`s heart to bring into the house of Jehovah,
let the priests take it, every man of his acquaintance; and  let them repair the breaches of the house, wherever any breach  is found.
And it was \so that\ in the twenty-third year of king  Jehoash, the priests had not repaired the breaches of the  house.
Then king Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and the  priests, and said to them, Why have ye not repaired the  breaches of the house? And now receive no money of your  acquaintances, but give it for the breaches of the house.
And the priests consented to receive no money of the  people, and that they should only repair the breaches of the  house.
And Jehoiada the priest took a chest, and bored a hole in  the lid, and set it beside the altar, on the right side as one  comes into the house of Jehovah; and the priests that kept the  door put into it all the money brought into the house of  Jehovah.
And it came to pass when they saw that there was much  money in the chest, that the king`s scribe and the high priest  came up, and they tied up and counted the money that was found  in the house of Jehovah.
And they gave the money, weighed out into the hands of  them that did the work, who were appointed over the house of  Jehovah; and they laid it out to the carpenters and builders  that wrought upon the house of Jehovah,
and to masons, and hewers of stone, and to buy timber and  hewn stone to repair the breaches of the house of Jehovah, and  for all that had to be laid out on the house for repairs.
However there were not made for the house of Jehovah  basons of silver, knives, bowls, trumpets, nor any utensil of  gold or utensil of silver, of the money that was brought \into\  the house of Jehovah;
but they gave that to the workmen, and repaired the house  of Jehovah with it.
And they did not reckon with the men into whose hand they  gave the money to be bestowed on workmen; for they dealt  faithfully.
The money of trespass-offerings, and the money of  sin-offerings, was not brought into the house of Jehovah: it  was for the priests.
Then Hazael king of Syria went up, and fought against  Gath, and took it. And Hazael set his face to go up against  Jerusalem.
And Jehoash king of Judah took all the hallowed things  that Jehoshaphat and Jehoram and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of  Judah, had dedicated, and his own hallowed things, and all the  gold found in the treasures of the house of Jehovah and in the  king`s house, and sent it to Hazael king of Syria; and he went  away from Jerusalem.
And the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did,  are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings  of Judah?
And his servants rose up and made a conspiracy, and smote  Joash in the house of Millo, at the descent of Silla.
And Jozachar the son of Shimeath and Jehozabad the son of  Shomer, his servants, smote him and he died; and they buried  him with his fathers in the city of David. And Amaziah his son  reigned in his stead.
