These are the mansions of the children of Israel, who went out of Egypt by their troops under the conduct of Moses and Aaron,
Which Moses wrote down according to the places of their encamping, which they changed by the commandment of the Lord.
Now the children of Israel departed from Ramesses the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month, the day after the phase, with a mighty hand, in the eight of all the Egyptians,
Who were burying their firstborn, whom the Lord had slain (upon their gods also he had executed vengeance,)
And they camped in Soccoth.
And from Soccoth they came into Etham, which is in the uttermost borders of the wilderness.
Departing from thence they came over against Phihahiroth, which looketh towards Beelsephon, and they camped before Magdalum.
And departing from Phihahiroth, they passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness: and having marched three days through the desert of Etham, they camped in Mara.
And departing from Mara, they came into Elim, where there were twelve fountains of waters, and seventy palm trees: and there they camped.
But departing from thence also, they pitched their tents by the Red Sea. And departing from the Red Sea,
They camped in the desert of Sin.
And they removed from thence, and came to Daphca.
And departing from Daphca, they camped in Alus.
And departing from Alus, they pitched their tents in Raphidim, where the people wanted water to drink.
And departing from Raphidim, they camped in the desert of Sinai.
But departing also from the desert of Sinai, they came to the graves of lust.
And departing from the graves of lust, they camped in Haseroth.
And from Haseroth they came to Rethma.
And departing from Rethma, they camped in Remmomphares.
And they departed from thence and came to Lebna.
Removing from Lebna they camped in Ressa.
And departing from Ressa, they came to Ceelatha.
And they removed from thence and camped in the mountain Sepher.
Departing from the mountain Sepher, they came to Arada.
From thence they went and camped in Maceloth.
And departing from Maceloth, they came to Thahath.
Removing from Thahath they camped in Thare.
And they departed from thence, and pitched their tents in Methca.
And removing from Methca, they camped in Hesmona.
And departing from Hesmona, they came to Moseroth.
And removing from Moseroth, they camped in Benejaacan.
And departing from Benejaacan, they came to mount Gadgad.
From thence they went and camped in Jetebatha.
And from Jetebatha they came to Hebrona.
And departing from Hebrona, they camped in Asiongaber.
They removed from thence and came into the desert of Sin, which is Cades.
And departing from Cades, they camped in mount Her, in the uttermost borders of the land of Edom.
And Aaron the priest went up into mount Hor at the commandment of the Lord: and there he died in the fortieth year of the coming forth of the children of Israel out of Egypt, W the fifth month, the first day of the month,
When he was a hundred and twenty-three years old.
And king Arad the Chanaanite, who dwelt towards the south, heard that the children of Israel were come to the land of Chanaan.
And they departed from mount Her, and camped in Salmona.
From whence they removed and came to Phunon.
And departing from Phunon, they camped in Oboth.
And from Oboth they came to Ijeabarim, which is in the borders of the Moabites.
And departing from Ijeabarim they pitched their tents in Dibongab.
From thence they went and camped in Helmondeblathaim.
And departing from Helmondeblathaim, they came to the mountains of Abarim over against Nabo.
And departing from the mountains of Abarim, they passed to the plains of Moab, by the Jordan, over against Jericho.
And there they camped from Bethsi moth even to Ablesatim in the plains of the Moabites,
Where the Lord said to Moses:
Command the children of Israel, and say to them: When you shall have passed over the Jordan, entering into the land of Chanaan,
Destroy all the inhabitants of that land: beat down their pillars, and break in pieces their statues, and waste all their high places,
Cleansing the land, and dwelling in it. For I have given it you for a possession.
And you shall divide it among you by lot. To the more you shall give a larger part, and to the fewer a lesser. To every one as the lot shall fall, so shall the inheritance be given. The possession shall be divided by the tribes and the families.
But if you will not kill the inhabitants of the land: they that remain, shall be unto you as nails in your eyes, and spears in your sides, and they shall be your adversaries in the land of your habitation.
And whatsoever I had thought to do to them, I will do to you.
