To the Overseer. -- A Psalm of David. <BR>O God of my praise, be not silent,
For the mouth of wickedness, and the mouth of deceit, Against me they have opened, They have spoken with me -- A tongue of falsehood, and words of hatred!
They have compassed me about, And they fight me without cause.
For my love they oppose me, and I -- prayer!
And they set against me evil for good, And hatred for my love.
Appoint Thou over him the wicked, And an adversary standeth at his right hand.
In his being judged, he goeth forth wicked, And his prayer is for sin.
His days are few, his oversight another taketh,
His sons are fatherless, and his wife a widow.
And wander continually do his sons, Yea, they have begged, And have sought out of their dry places.
An exactor layeth a snare for all that he hath, And strangers spoil his labour.
He hath none to extend kindness, Nor is there one showing favour to his orphans.
His posterity is for cutting off, In another generation is their name blotted out.
The iniquity of his fathers Is remembered unto Jehovah, And the sin of his mother is not blotted out.
They are before Jehovah continually, And He cutteth off from earth their memorial.
Because that he hath not remembered to do kindness, And pursueth the poor man and needy, And the smitten of heart -- to slay,
And he loveth reviling, and it meeteth him, And he hath not delighted in blessing, And it is far from him.
And he putteth on reviling as his robe, And it cometh in as water into his midst, And as oil into his bones.
It is to him as apparel -- he covereth himself, And for a continual girdle he girdeth it on.
This \is\ the wage of mine accusers from Jehovah, And of those speaking evil against my soul.
And Thou, O Jehovah Lord, Deal with me for Thy name`s sake, Because Thy kindness \is\ good, deliver me.
For I \am\ poor and needy, And my heart hath been pierced in my midst.
As a shadow when it is stretched out I have gone, I have been driven away as a locust.
My knees have been feeble from fasting, And my flesh hath failed of fatness.
And I -- I have been a reproach to them, They see me, they shake their head.
Help me, O Jehovah my God, Save me, according to Thy kindness.
And they know that this \is\ Thy hand, Thou, O Jehovah, Thou hast done it.
They revile, and Thou dost bless, They have risen, and are ashamed, And Thy servant doth rejoice.
Mine accusers put on blushing, and are covered, As an upper robe \is\ their shame.
I thank Jehovah greatly with my mouth, And in the midst of many I praise Him,
For He standeth at the right hand of the needy, To save from those judging his soul.
