Hear ye now what Jehovah saith: Arise, contend before the  mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice.
Hear, ye mountains, Jehovah`s controversy, and ye,  unchanging foundations of the earth; for Jehovah hath a  controversy with his people, and he will plead with Israel.
O my people, what have I done unto thee? and wherein have I  wearied thee? testify against me.
For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed  thee out of the house of bondage; and I sent before thee Moses,  Aaron, and Miriam.
My people, remember now what Balak king of Moab consulted,  and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him, from Shittim unto  Gilgal, that ye may know the righteousness of Jehovah.
Wherewith shall I come before Jehovah, bow myself before the  high God? Shall I come before him with burnt-offerings, with  calves of a year old?
Will Jehovah take pleasure in thousands of rams, in ten  thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my  transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?
He hath shewn thee, O man, what is good: and what doth  Jehovah require of thee, but to do justly, and to love  goodness, and to walk humbly with thy God?
Jehovah`s voice crieth unto the city, and wisdom looketh on  thy name. Hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it.
Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the  wicked, and the scant measure \which is\ abominable?
Shall I be pure with the unjust balances, and with the bag  of deceitful weights?
For her rich men are full of violence, and her inhabitants  speak lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.
Therefore also will I make \thee\ sick in smiting thee; I  will make \thee\ desolate because of thy sins.
Thou shalt eat, and not be satisfied, and thine emptiness  \shall remain\ in the midst of thee; and thou shalt take away,  and not save; and what thou savest will I give up to the sword.
Thou shalt sow, but thou shalt not reap; thou shalt tread  the olives, but thou shalt not anoint thee with oil; and new  wine, but shalt not drink wine.
For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the  house of Ahab; and ye walk in their counsels: that I should  make thee a desolation, and the inhabitants thereof a hissing;  and ye shall bear the reproach of my people.
