Woe is me! for I am as when they have gathered the  summer-fruits, as the grape-gleanings of the vintage. There is  no cluster to eat; there is no early fruit \which\ my soul  desired.
The godly \man\ hath perished out of the land, and there is  none upright among men: they all lie in wait for blood, they  hunt every man his brother with a net.
Both hands are for evil, to do it well. The prince asketh,  and the judge \is there\ for a reward; and the great \man\  uttereth his soul`s greed: and \together\ they combine it.
The best of them is as a briar; the most upright, \worse\  than a thorn-fence. The day of thy watchmen, thy visitation is  come; now shall be their perplexity.
Believe ye not in a companion, put not confidence in a  familiar friend: keep the doors of thy mouth from her that  lieth in thy bosom.
For the son dishonoureth the father, the daughter riseth up  against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her  mother-in-law: a man`s enemies are the men of his own  household.
But as for me, I will look unto Jehovah; I will wait for the  God of my salvation: my God will hear me.
Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy: though I fall, I shall  arise; when I sit in darkness, Jehovah shall be a light unto  me.
I will bear the indignation of Jehovah -- for I have sinned  against him -- until he plead my cause, and execute judgment  for me: he will bring me forth to the light; I shall behold his  righteousness.
And mine enemy shall see \it\, and shame shall cover her  which said unto me, Where is Jehovah thy God? Mine eyes shall  behold her; now shall she be trodden down, as the mire of the  streets.
In the day when thy walls shall be built, on that day shall  the established limit recede.
In that day they shall come to thee from Assyria and the  cities of Egypt, and from Egypt to the river, and from sea to  sea, and from mountain to mountain.
But the land shall be desolate because of them that dwell  therein, for the fruit of their doings.
Feed thy people with thy rod, the flock of thine  inheritance, dwelling alone in the forest, in the midst of  Carmel: let them feed in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of  old.
-- As in the days of thy coming forth out of the land of  Egypt, will I shew them marvellous things.
-- The nations shall see, and be ashamed for all their  might: they shall lay \their\ hand upon \their\ mouth, their  ears shall be deaf.
They shall lick dust like the serpent; like crawling things  of the earth, they shall come trembling forth from their close  places. They shall turn with fear to Jehovah our God, and shall  be afraid because of thee.
Who is a ùGod like unto thee, that forgiveth iniquity, and  passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? He  retaineth not his anger for ever, because he delighteth in  loving-kindness.
He will yet again have compassion on us, he will tread  under foot our iniquities: and thou wilt cast all their sins  into the depths of the sea.
Thou wilt perform truth to Jacob, loving-kindness to  Abraham, which thou hast sworn unto our fathers, from the days  of old.
