Now we beg you, brothers, concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and our gathering together to him,
to the end that you won't be quickly shaken in your mind, nor yet be troubled, either by spirit, or by word, or by letter as from us, saying that the day of Christ had come.
Let no one deceive you in any way. For it will not be, unless the falling away comes first, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of destruction,
he who opposes and exalts himself against all that is called God or that is worshipped; so that he sits as God in the temple of God, setting himself up as God.
Don't you remember that, when I was still with you, I told you these things?
Now you know what is restraining him, to the end that he may be revealed in his own season.
For the mystery of lawlessness does already work. Only there is one who restrains now, until he is taken out of the way.
Then will the lawless one be revealed, whom the Lord will kill with the breath of his mouth, and bring to nothing by the brightness of his coming;
even he whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,
and with all deception of wickedness for those who are being lost, because they didn't receive the love of the truth, that they might be saved.
Because of this, God sends them a working of error, that they should believe a lie;
that they all might be judged who didn't believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
But we are bound to always give thanks to God for you, brothers loved by the Lord, because God chose you from the beginning for salvation in sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth;
whereunto he called you through our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
So then, brothers, stand firm, and hold the traditions which you were taught by us, whether by word, or by letter.
Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God, our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace,
comfort your hearts and establish you in every good work and word.
