And a man of the house of Levi went and took a daughter of  Levi.
And the woman conceived, and bore a son. And she saw him  that he was fair, and hid him three months.
And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him an  ark of reeds, and plastered it with resin and with pitch, and  put the child in it, and laid \it\ in the sedge on the bank of  the river.
And his sister stood afar off to see what would happen to  him.
And the daughter of Pharaoh went down to bathe in the river;  and her maids went along by the river`s side. And she saw the  ark in the midst of the sedge, and sent her handmaid and  fetched it.
And she opened \it\, and saw the child, and behold, the boy  wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This is \one\ of  the Hebrews` children.
And his sister said to Pharaoh`s daughter, Shall I go and  call thee a wet-nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse  the child for thee?
And Pharaoh`s daughter said to her, Go. And the damsel went  and called the child`s mother.
And Pharaoh`s daughter said to her, Take this child away and  nurse it for me, and I will give \thee\ thy wages. And the  woman took the child and nursed it.
And when the child was grown, she brought him to Pharaoh`s  daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses,  and said, Because I drew him out of the water.
And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown,  that he went out to his brethren and looked on their burdens;  and he saw an Egyptian smiting a Hebrew, one of his brethren.
And he turned this way and that way, and when he saw that  there was no man, he smote the Egyptian, and hid him in the  sand.
And he went out on the second day, and behold, two Hebrew  men were quarrelling; and he said to him that was in the wrong,  Why art thou smiting thy neighbour?
And he said, Who made thee ruler and judge over us? dost  thou intend to kill me, as thou killedst the Egyptian? Then  Moses feared, and said, Surely the matter is known.
And Pharaoh heard of this matter, and sought to slay Moses.  But Moses fled from before Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of  Midian. And he sat by the well.
And the priest of Midian had seven daughters; and they came  and drew \water\, and filled the troughs, to water their  father`s flock.
And the shepherds came and drove them away; but Moses rose  and helped them, and watered their flock.
And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, Why are  ye come so soon to-day?
And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of  the shepherds, and also drew \water\ abundantly for us, and  watered the flock.
And he said to his daughters, And where is he? why then  have ye left the man behind? Call him, that he may eat bread.
And Moses consented to remain with the man; and he gave  Moses Zipporah his daughter.
And she bore a son, and he called his name Gershom; for he  said, I have been a sojourner in a foreign land.
And it came to pass during those many days, that the king  of Egypt died. And the children of Israel sighed because of the  bondage, and cried; and their cry came up to God because of the  bondage;
and God heard their groaning, and God remembered his  covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob;
and God looked upon the children of Israel, and God  acknowledged \them\.
