And Moses collected all the assembly of the children of  Israel, and said to them, These are the things which Jehovah  has commanded, to do them.
Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there  shall be to you a holy day, a sabbath of rest to Jehovah:  whoever does work on it shall be put to death.
Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your dwellings upon the  sabbath day.
And Moses spoke to all the assembly of the children of  Israel, saying, This is the word which Jehovah has commanded,  saying,
Take from among you a heave-offering to Jehovah: every one  whose heart \is\ willing, let him bring it, Jehovah`s  heave-offering -- gold, and silver, and copper,
and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and byssus, and goats`  \hair\,
and rams` skins dyed red, and badgers` skins, and  acacia-wood,
and oil for the light, and spices for the anointing oil,  and for the incense of fragrant drugs;
and onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod, and  for the breastplate.
And all who are wise-hearted among you shall come and make  all that Jehovah has commanded:
the tabernacle, its tent, and its covering, its clasps,  and its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its bases;
the ark, and its staves; the mercy-seat, and the veil of  separation;
the table and its staves, and all its utensils, and the  shewbread;
and the lamp-stand for the light, and its utensils, and  its lamps, and the oil for the light;
and the altar of incense, and its staves; and the  anointing-oil, and the incense of fragrant drugs; and the  entrance-curtain at the entrance of the tabernacle;
the altar of burnt-offering, and the copper grating for  it, its staves, and all its utensils; the laver and its stand;
the hangings of the court, its pillars, and its bases, and  the curtains of the gate of the court;
the pegs of the tabernacle, and the pegs of the court, and  their cords;
the garments of service, to do service in the sanctuary,  the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his  sons, to serve as priests.
And all the assembly of the children of Israel departed  from before Moses.
And they came, every one whose heart moved him, and every  one whose spirit prompted him; they brought Jehovah`s  heave-offering for the work of the tent of meeting, and for all  its service, and for the holy garments.
And they came, both men and women; every one who was of  willing heart brought nose-rings, and earrings, and rings, and  bracelets, all kinds of utensils of gold: every man that waved  a wave-offering of gold to Jehovah.
And every man with whom was found blue, and purple, and  scarlet, and byssus, and goats` \hair\, and rams` skins dyed  red, and badgers` skins, brought \them\.
All they that offered a heave-offering of silver and  copper brought Jehovah`s heave-offering. And every one with  whom was found acacia-wood for all manner of work of the  service, brought \it\.
And every woman that was wise-hearted spun with her hands,  and brought what she had spun: the blue, and the purple, and  the scarlet, and the byssus.
And all the women whose heart moved them in wisdom spun  goats` \hair\.
And the principal men brought the onyx stones, and the  stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate;
and the spice, and the oil for the light, and for the  anointing oil, and for the incense of fragrant drugs.
The children of Israel brought a voluntary offering to  Jehovah, every man and woman whose heart prompted them to bring  for all manner of work, which Jehovah, by the hand of Moses,  had commanded to be done.
And Moses said to the children of Israel, See, Jehovah has  called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the  tribe of Judah,
and he has filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom,  in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of  workmanship,
and to devise artistic things: to work in gold, and in  silver, and in copper,
and in cutting of stones, for setting, and in carving of  wood, to execute all artistic work;
and he has put in his heart to teach, he and Aholiab, the  son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan:
he has filled them with wisdom of heart, to work all  manner of work of the engraver, and of the artificer, and of  the embroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in  byssus, and of the weaver, \even\ of them that do every kind of  work, and of those that devise artistic work
