Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every man that was  wise-hearted, in whom Jehovah had put wisdom and understanding  to know how to work all manner of work of the service of the  sanctuary -- according to all that Jehovah had commanded.
And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every man that  was wise-hearted, in whose heart God had put wisdom, every one  whose heart moved him to come to the work to do it.
And they took from Moses every heave-offering that the  children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of  the sanctuary, to make it. And they still brought him voluntary  offerings morning by morning.
And all the wise men that wrought all the work of the  sanctuary came, every man from his work which they wrought,
and spoke to Moses, saying, The people bring much more than  enough for the service of the work that Jehovah commanded to be  done.
Then Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be  proclaimed through the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman  make any more work for the heave-offering of the sanctuary! So  the people were restrained from bringing;
for the work they had was sufficient for all the work to do  it, and it was too much.
And every wise-hearted man among those that wrought the  work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of twined byssus, and  blue, and purple, and scarlet: \with\ cherubim of artistic work  did he make them.
The length of one curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the  breadth of one curtain four cubits -- one measure for all the  curtains.
And he coupled five of the curtains one to another, and  \the other\ five curtains coupled he one to another.
And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain at  the edge of the coupling; he did likewise in the edge of the  outermost curtain in the other coupling.
He made fifty loops in one curtain, and he made fifty  loops at the end of the curtain that was in the other coupling:  the loops were opposite to one another.
And he made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains  together with the clasps, so that the tabernacle became one.
And he made curtains of goats` \hair\ for the tent over  the tabernacle: eleven curtains did he make them.
The length of one curtain was thirty cubits, and four  cubits the breadth of one curtain -- one measure for the eleven  curtains.
And he coupled five of the curtains by themselves, and six  of the curtains by themselves.
And he made fifty loops on the edge of the outermost  curtain in the coupling, and fifty loops made he on the edge of  the curtain in the other coupling.
And he made fifty clasps of copper to couple the tent,  that it might be one.
And he made a covering for the tent \of\ rams` skins dyed  red, and a covering of badgers` skins above \that\.
And he made the boards for the tabernacle of acacia-wood,  standing up;
ten cubits the length of the boards, and one cubit and a  half the breadth of one board;
two tenons in one board, connected one with the other:  thus did he make for all the boards of the tabernacle.
And he made the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards  for the south side southward;
and he made forty bases of silver under the twenty boards,  two bases under one board, for its two tenons, and two bases  under another board for its two tenons.
And for the other side of the tabernacle, on the side  toward the north, he made twenty boards,
and their forty bases of silver, two bases under one  board, and two bases under another board.
And at the rear of the tabernacle, westward, he made six  boards;
and he made two boards for the corners of the tabernacle  at the rear;
and they were joined beneath, and were coupled together at  the top thereof into one ring: thus he did to both of them in  both the corners;
and there were eight boards, and their silver bases:  sixteen bases, under every board two bases.
-- And he made bars of acacia-wood: five for the boards of  the one side of the tabernacle,
and five bars for the boards of the other side of the  tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle at  the rear, westward.
And he made the middle bar in the midst of the boards  reach from one end to the other.
And he overlaid the boards with gold; and made their rings  of gold \as\ receptacles for the bars; and overlaid the bars  with gold.
And he made the veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and  twined byssus: of artistic work he made it \with\ cherubim.
And he made four pillars of acacia\-wood\ for it, and  overlaid them with gold; their hooks were of gold; and he cast  for them four bases of silver.
And he made a curtain for the entrance of the tent of  blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined byssus, of  embroidery;
and its five pillars with their hooks; and he overlaid  their capitals and their connecting-rods with gold; and their  five bases were of copper.
