And he made the altar of burnt-offering of acacia-wood;  five cubits the length thereof, and five cubits the breadth  thereof, square, and three cubits the height thereof.
And he made its horns on the four corners thereof; its  horns were of itself; and he overlaid it with copper.
And he made all the utensils of the altar: the pots, and  the shovels, and the bowls, the forks, and the firepans; all  its utensils made he of copper.
And he made for the altar a grating of network of copper  under its ledge from beneath, to the very middle of it.
And he cast four rings for the four corners of the grating  of copper, as receptacles for the staves.
And he made the staves of acacia-wood, and overlaid them  with copper.
And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the  altar, with which to carry it. Hollow with boards did he make  it.
And he made the laver of copper, and its stand of copper,  of the mirrors of the crowds of women who crowded before the  entrance of the tent of meeting.
And he made the court. On the south side southward, the  hangings of the court were of twined byssus, a hundred cubits;
their pillars twenty, and their bases twenty, of copper;  the hooks of the pillars and their connecting-rods of silver.
And on the north side, a hundred cubits; their pillars  twenty, and their bases twenty, of copper; the hooks of the  pillars and their connecting-rods of silver.
And on the west side, hangings of fifty cubits; their  pillars ten, and their bases ten; the hooks of the pillars and  their connecting-rods of silver.
And for the east side, eastward, fifty cubits;
the hangings on the one wing of fifteen cubits, their  pillars three, and their bases three;
and on the other wing, on this side as on that side of the  gate of the court, hangings of fifteen cubits, their pillars  three, and their bases three.
All the hangings of the court round about were of twined  byssus;
and the bases of the pillars of copper, the hooks of the  pillars and their connecting-rods of silver, and the overlaying  of their capitals of silver; and all the pillars of the court  were fastened together with \rods of\ silver.
-- And the curtain of the gate of the court was of  embroidery of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined byssus;  and the length was twenty cubits, and the height like the  breadth, five cubits, just as the hangings of the court;
and their pillars four, and their bases four, of copper;  their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their capitals and  their connecting-rods of silver.
And all the pegs for the tabernacle and for the court  round about were of copper.
These are the things numbered of the tabernacle, the  tabernacle of the testimony, which were counted, according to  the commandment of Moses, by the service of the Levites, under  the hand of Ithamar, son of Aaron the priest.
And Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe  of Judah, made all that Jehovah had commanded Moses;
and with him Aholiab, son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of  Dan, an engraver and artificer, and an embroiderer in blue, and  in purple, and in scarlet, and in byssus.
All the gold that it took for the work in all the work of  the sanctuary -- the gold of the wave-offering, was twenty-nine  talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, according to the  shekel of the sanctuary.
And the silver of them that were numbered of the assembly  was a hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred and  seventy-five shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary:
a bekah the head -- half a shekel, according to the shekel  of the sanctuary, for every one that passed the numbering from  twenty years old and upward, \of\ the six hundred and three  thousand five hundred and fifty.
And there were a hundred talents of silver for casting the  bases of the sanctuary, and the bases of the veil; a hundred  bases of a hundred talents, a talent for a base.
And of the thousand seven hundred and seventy-five  \shekels\ he made the hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their  capitals, and fastened them \with rods\.
And the copper of the wave-offering was seventy talents,  and two thousand four hundred shekels.
And he made with it the bases for the entrance of the tent  of meeting, and the copper altar, and the copper grating for  it, and all the utensils of the altar.
And the bases of the court round about, and the bases of  the gate of the court, and all the pegs of the tabernacle, and  all the pegs of the court round about.
