And it came to pass in Iconium, that they went both together into the synagogue of the Jews, and so spoke, that a great multitude both of the Jews, and also of the Greeks, believed.
But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles, and made their minds evil-affected against the brethren.
A long time therefore they abode speaking boldly in the Lord, who gave testimony to the word of his grace, and granted signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
But the multitude of the city was divided: and part held with the Jews, and part with the apostles.
And when there was an assault made both of the Gentiles, and also of the Jews, with their rulers, to use them despitefully, and to stone them,
Being apprised of it, they fled to Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to the region in that vicinity.
And there they preached the gospel.
And there sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent in his feet, being a cripple from his mother's womb, who had never walked.
The same heard Paul speak: who steadfastly beholding him, and perceiving that he had faith to be healed,
Said with a loud voice, Stand upright on thy feet. And he leaped and walked.
And when the people saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in the speech of Lycaonia, The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men.
And they called Barnabas, Jupiter, and Paul, Mercurius, because he was the chief speaker.
Then the priest of Jupiter, who was before their city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates, and would have done sacrifice with the people.
Which, when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of, they rent their clothes, and ran in among the people, crying out,
And saying, Sirs, why do ye these things? We also are men of like passions with you, and preach to you, that ye should turn from these vanities to the living God, who made heaven and earth, and the sea, and all things that are in them.
Who in times past suffered all nations to walk in their own ways.
Nevertheless he left not himself without witness, in that he did good, and gave us rain from heaven, and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness.
And with these sayings they scarce restrained the people from doing sacrifice to them.
And there came thither certain Jews from Antioch, and Iconium, who persuaded the people, and having stoned Paul, drew him out of the city, supposing him to be dead.
But as the disciples stood around him, he rose, and came into the city: and the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derbe.
And when they had preached the gospel to that city, and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra, and to Iconium, and to Antioch,
Confirming the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God.
And when they had ordained for them elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they believed.
And after they had passed throughout Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.
And when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down into Attalia:
And thence sailed to Antioch, from whence they had been commended to the grace of God, for the work which they fulfilled.
And when they had come, and had assembled the church, they rehearsed all that God had done with them, and that he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles.
