And certain men who came down from Judea, taught the brethren, and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved.
When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, and certain others of them, should go to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders about this question.
And being brought on their way by the church, they passed through Phenice, and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: and they caused great joy to all the brethren.
And when they had come to Jerusalem, they were received by the church, and by the apostles and elders, and they declared all things that God had done with them.
But there rose certain of the sect of the Pharisees, who believed, saying, That it was needful to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the law of Moses.
And the apostles and elders came together to consider of this matter.
And when there had been much disputing, Peter rose and said to them, Men, brethren, ye know that a good while ago, God made choice among us, that the Gentiles, by my mouth should hear the word of the gospel, and believe.
And God, who knoweth the hearts, bore them witness, giving to them the Holy Spirit, even as he did to us:
And put no difference between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Now therefore why tempt ye God, to put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
But we believe, that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, we shall be saved even as they.
Then all the multitude kept silence, and gave audience to Barnabas and Paul, declaring what miracles and wonders God had wrought by them among the Gentiles.
And after they held their peace, James answered, saying, Men, brethren, hearken to me.
Simeon hath declared how God at the first visited the Gentiles to take from among them a people for his name.
And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written,
After this I will return, and will build again the tabernacle of David which is fallen down; and I will build again the ruins of it; and I will set it up:
That the residue of men may seek after the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, saith the Lord, who doeth all these things.
Known to God are all his works from the beginning of the world.
Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them, who from among the Gentiles are turned to God:
But that we write to them that they abstain from pollutions of idols, and from lewdness, and from things strangled, and from blood.
For Moses of old time hath in every city them that preach him, being read in the synagogues every sabbath.
Then it pleased the apostles and elders, with the whole church, to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch, with Paul and Barnabas; namely, Judas surnamed Barsabas, and Silas, chief men among the brethren:
And they wrote letters by them after this manner; The apostles, and elders, and brethren, send greeting to the brethren who are of the Gentiles in Antioch, and Syria, and Cilicia.
Forasmuch as we have heard, that certain who went out from us, have troubled you with words, subverting your souls, saying, Ye must be circumcised, and keep the law; to whom we gave no such commandment:
It seemed good to us, being assembled with one accord, to send chosen men to you, with our beloved Barnabas and Paul:
Men that have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who will also tell you the same things by mouth.
For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things;
That ye abstain from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from lewdness: from which if ye keep yourselves, ye will do well. Fare ye well.
So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch: and when they had convened the multitude, they delivered the epistle.
Which when they had read, they rejoiced for the consolation.
And Judas and Silas, being prophets also themselves, exhorted the brethren with many words, and confirmed them.
And after they had tarried there a time, they were dismissed in peace from the brethren to the apostles.
Notwithstanding, it pleased Silas to abide there still.
Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.
And some days after, Paul said to Barnabas, Let us go again and visit our brethren, in every city where we have preached the word of the Lord, and see how they do.
And Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose surname was Mark.
But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departed from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work.
And the contention was so sharp between them, that they departed, separating one from the other: and so Barnabas took Mark, and sailed to Cyprus.
And Paul chose Silas, and departed, being commended by the brethren to the grace of God.
And he went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.
