And I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to the  seven angels, Go and pour out the seven bowls of the fury of  God upon the earth.
And the first went and poured out his bowl on the earth;  and there came an evil and grievous sore upon the men that had  the mark of the beast, and those who worshipped its image.
And the second poured out his bowl on the sea; and it  became blood, as of a dead man; and every living soul died in  the sea.
And the third poured out his bowl on the rivers, and \on\  the fountains of waters; and they became blood.
And I heard the angel of the waters saying, Thou art  righteous, who art and wast, the holy one, that thou hast  judged so;
for they have poured out the blood of saints and prophets,  and thou hast given them blood to drink; they are worthy.
And I heard the altar saying, Yea, Lord God Almighty, true  and righteous \are\ thy judgments.
And the fourth poured out his bowl on the sun; and it was  given to it to burn men with fire.
And the men were burnt with great heat, and blasphemed the  name of God, who had authority over these plagues, and did not  repent to give him glory.
And the fifth poured out his bowl on the throne of the  beast; and its kingdom became darkened; and they gnawed their  tongues with distress,
and blasphemed the God of the heaven for their distresses  and their sores, and did not repent of their works.
And the sixth poured out his bowl on the great river  Euphrates; and its water was dried up, that the way of the  kings from the rising of the sun might be prepared.
And I saw out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the  mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet,  three unclean spirits, as frogs;
for they are \the\ spirits of demons, doing signs; which  go out to the kings of the whole habitable world to gather them  together to the war of \that\ great day of God the Almighty.
(Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed \is\ he that watches  and keeps his garments, that he may not walk naked, and that  they \may not\ see his shame.)
And he gathered them together to the place called in  Hebrew, Armagedon.
And the seventh poured out his bowl on the air; and there  came out a great voice from the temple of the heaven, from the  throne, saying, It is done.
And there were lightnings, and voices, and thunders; and  there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were  upon the earth, such an earthquake, so great.
And the great city was \divided\ into three parts; and the  cities of the nations fell: and great Babylon was remembered  before God to give her the cup of the wine of the fury of his  wrath.
And every island fled, and mountains were not found;
and a great hail, as of a talent weight, comes down out of  the heaven upon men; and men blasphemed God because of the  plague of hail, for the plague of it is exceeding great.
