And when it opened the seventh seal, there was silence in  the heaven about half an hour.
And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven  trumpets were given to them.
And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a  golden censer; and much incense was given to him, that he might  give \efficacy\ to the prayers of all saints at the golden  altar which \was\ before the throne.
And the smoke of the incense went up with the prayers of the  saints, out of the hand of the angel before God.
And the angel took the censer, and filled it from the fire  of the altar, and cast \it\ on the earth: and there were  voices, and thunders and lightnings, and an earthquake.
And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared  themselves that they might sound with \their\ trumpets.
And the first sounded \his\ trumpet: and there was hail and  fire, mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth;  and the third part of the earth was burnt up, and the third  part of the trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt  up.
And the second angel sounded \his\ trumpet: and as a great  mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea, and the third  part of the sea became blood;
and the third part of the creatures which were in the sea  which had life died; and the third part of the ships were  destroyed.
And the third angel sounded \his\ trumpet: and there fell  out of the heaven a great star, burning as a torch, and it fell  upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of  waters.
And the name of the star is called Wormwood; and the third  part of the waters became wormwood, and many of the men died of  the waters because they were made bitter.
And the fourth angel sounded \his\ trumpet: and the third  part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon,  and the third part of the stars; so that the third part of them  should be darkened, and that the day should not appear \for\  the third part of it, and the night the same.
And I saw, and I heard an eagle flying in mid-heaven,  saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to them that dwell  upon the earth, for the remaining voices of the trumpet of the  three angels who are about to sound.
