My soul is weary of my life: I will give free course to my  complaint; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.
I will say unto +God, Do not condemn me; shew me wherefore  thou strivest with me.
Doth it please thee to oppress, that thou shouldest despise  the work of thy hands, and shine upon the counsel of the  wicked?
Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man seeth?
Are thy days as the days of a mortal? are thy years as a  man`s days,
That thou searchest after mine iniquity, and inquirest into  my sin;
Since thou knowest that I am not wicked, and that there is  none that delivereth out of thy hand?
Thy hands have bound me together and made me as one, round  about; yet dost thou swallow me up!
Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as clay,  and wilt bring me into dust again.
Hast thou not poured me out as milk, and curdled me like  cheese?
Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and knit me  together with bones and sinews;
Thou hast granted me life and favour, and thy care hath  preserved my spirit;
And these things didst thou hide in thy heart; I know that  this was with thee.
If I sinned, thou wouldest mark me, and thou wouldest not  acquit me of mine iniquity.
If I were wicked, woe unto me! and righteous, I will not  lift up my head, being \so\ full of shame, and beholding mine  affliction; --
And it increaseth: thou huntest me as a fierce lion; and  ever again thou shewest thy marvellous power upon me.
Thou renewest thy witnesses before me and increasest thy  displeasure against me; successions \of evil\ and a time of  toil are with me.
And wherefore didst thou bring me forth out of the womb? I  had expired, and no eye had seen me.
I should be as though I had not been; I should have been  carried from the womb to the grave.
Are not my days few? cease then and let me alone, that I  may revive a little,
Before I go, and never to return, -- to the land of  darkness and the shadow of death;
A land of gloom, as darkness itself; of the shadow of  death, without any order, where the light is as thick darkness.
