And Job answered and said,
Truly ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with you!
I also have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior  to you; and who knoweth not such things as these?
I am to be one that is a derision to his friend, I who call  upon +God, and whom he will answer: a derision is the just  upright \man\.
He that is ready to stumble with the foot is a lamp  despised in the thought of him that is at ease.
The tents of desolators are in peace, and they that provoke  ùGod are secure; into whose hand +God bringeth.
But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee; and the  fowl of the heavens, and they shall tell thee;
Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee; and the  fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee.
Who knoweth not in all these, that the hand of Jehovah hath  wrought this?
In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the  spirit of all flesh of man.
Doth not the ear try words, as the palate tasteth food?
With the aged is wisdom, and in length of days  understanding.
With him is wisdom and might; he hath counsel and  understanding.
Behold, he breaketh down, and it is not built again; he  shutteth up a man, and there is no opening.
Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up; and he  sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth.
With him is strength and effectual knowledge; the deceived  and the deceiver are his.
He leadeth counsellors away spoiled, and judges maketh he  fools;
He weakeneth the government of kings, and bindeth their  loins with a fetter;
He leadeth priests away spoiled, and overthroweth the  mighty;
He depriveth of speech the trusty, and taketh away the  judgment of the elders;
He poureth contempt upon nobles, and slackeneth the girdle  of the mighty;
He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth  out into light the shadow of death;
He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them; he  spreadeth out the nations, and bringeth them in;
He taketh away the understanding of the chiefs of the  people of the earth, and causeth them to wander in a pathless  waste.
They grope in the dark without light, and he maketh them  to stagger like a drunkard.
