Lo, mine eye hath seen all \this\, mine ear hath heard and  understood it.
What ye know, I know also: I am not inferior to you.
But I will speak to the Almighty, and will find pleasure in  reasoning with ùGod;
For ye indeed are forgers of lies, ye are all physicians of  no value.
Oh that ye would be altogether silent! and it would be your  wisdom.
Hear now my defence, and hearken to the pleadings of my  lips.
Will ye speak unrighteously for ùGod? and for him speak  deceit?
Will ye accept his person? will ye contend for ùGod?
Will it be well if he should search you out? or as one  mocketh at a man, will ye mock at him?
He will certainly reprove you, if ye do secretly accept  persons.
Shall not his excellency terrify you? and his dread fall  upon you?
Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes, your  bulwarks are bulwarks of mire.
Hold your peace from me, and I will speak, and let come on  me what \will\!
Wherefore should I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my  life in my hand?
Behold, if he slay me, yet would I trust in him; but I  will defend mine own ways before him.
This also shall be my salvation, that a profane man shall  not come before his face.
Hear attentively my speech and my declaration with your  ears.
Behold now, I have ordered the cause; I know that I shall  be justified.
Who is he that contendeth with me? For if I were silent  now, I should expire.
Only do not two things unto me; then will I not hide  myself from thee.
Withdraw thy hand far from me; and let not thy terror make  me afraid:
Then call, and I will answer; or I will speak, and answer  thou me.
How many are mine iniquities and sins? Make me to know my  transgression and my sin.
Wherefore dost thou hide thy face, and countest me for  thine enemy?
Wilt thou terrify a driven leaf? and wilt thou pursue dry  stubble?
For thou writest bitter things against me, and makest me  to possess the iniquities of my youth;
And thou puttest my feet in the stocks, and markest all my  paths; thou settest a bound about the soles of my feet; --
One who, as a rotten thing consumeth, as a garment that  the moth eateth.
