Man, born of woman, is of few days, and full of trouble.
He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down; and he  fleeth as a shadow, and continueth not.
Yet dost thou open thine eyes upon such a one, and bringest  me into judgment with thee?
Who can bring a clean \man\ out of the unclean? Not one!
If his days are determined, if the number of his months is  with thee, \and\ thou hast appointed his bounds which he must  not pass,
Look away from him; and let him rest, till he accomplish,  as a hireling, his day.
For there is hope for a tree: if it be cut down, it will  sprout again, and its tender branch will not cease;
Though its root grow old in the earth, and its stock die in  the ground,
Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and put forth  boughs like a young plant.
But a man dieth, and is prostrate; yea, man expireth, and  where is he?
The waters recede from the lake, and the river wasteth and  drieth up:
So man lieth down, and riseth not again; till the heavens  be no more, they do not awake, nor are raised out of their  sleep.
Oh that thou wouldest hide me in Sheol, that thou wouldest  keep me secret until thine anger be past, that thou wouldest  appoint me a set time, and remember me, --
(If a man die, shall he live \again\?) all the days of my  time of toil would I wait, till my change should come:
Thou wouldest call, and I would answer thee; thou wouldest  have a desire after the work of thy hands.
For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over  my sin?
My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou heapest  up mine iniquity.
And indeed a mountain falling cometh to nought, and the  rock is removed out of its place;
The waters wear the stones, the floods thereof wash away  the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of man.
Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth away;  thou changest his countenance, and dismissest him.
His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they  are brought low, and he perceiveth it not.
But his flesh hath pain for himself alone, and his soul  mourneth for himself.
