And Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,
Should a wise man answer with windy knowledge, and fill his  belly with the east wind,
Reasoning with unprofitable talk, and with speeches which  do no good?
Yea, thou makest piety of none effect, and restrainest  meditation before ùGod.
For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou hast chosen  the tongue of the crafty.
Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I; and thy lips  testify against thee.
Art thou the first man that was born? and wast thou brought  forth before the hills?
Hast thou listened in the secret council of +God? And hast  thou absorbed wisdom for thyself?
What knowest thou that we know not? \what\ understandest  thou which is not in us?
Both the greyheaded and the aged are with us, older than  thy father.
Are the consolations of ùGod too small for thee? and the  word gently spoken to thee?
Why doth thy heart carry thee away? and why do thine eyes  wink?
That thou turnest thy spirit against ùGod, and lettest  words go out of thy mouth?
What is man, that he should be pure? and he that is born  of a woman, that he should be righteous?
Behold, he putteth no trust in his holy ones, and the  heavens are not pure in his sight:
How much less the abominable and corrupt, -- man, that  drinketh unrighteousness like water!
I will shew thee, listen to me; and what I have seen I  will declare;
Which wise men have told from their fathers, and have not  hidden;
Unto whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger  passed among them.
All his days the wicked man is tormented, and numbered  years are allotted to the violent.
The sound of terrors is in his ears: in prosperity the  destroyer cometh upon him.
He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, and  he is singled out for the sword.
He wandereth abroad for bread, -- where may it be? He  knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.
Distress and anguish make him afraid; they prevail against  him, as a king ready for the battle.
For he hath stretched out his hand against ùGod, and  strengthened himself against the Almighty:
He runneth against him, with \outstretched\ neck, with the  thick bosses of his bucklers;
For he hath covered his face with his fatness, and  gathered fat upon \his\ flanks.
And he dwelleth in desolate cities, in houses that no man  inhabiteth, which are destined to become heaps.
He shall not become rich, neither shall his substance  continue, and their possessions shall not extend upon the  earth.
He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry  up his branches; and by the breath of his mouth shall he go  away.
Let him not trust in vanity: he is deceived, for vanity  shall be his recompense;
It shall be complete before his day, and his branch shall  not be green.
He shall shake off his unripe grapes as a vine, and shall  cast his flower as an olive.
For the family of the ungodly shall be barren, and fire  shall consume the tents of bribery.
They conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity, and  their belly prepareth deceit.
