And Job answered and said,
Hear attentively my speech, and let this replace your  consolations.
Suffer me and I will speak; and after I have spoken, mock  on!
As for me, is my complaint to a man? or wherefore should  not my spirit be impatient?
Mark me, and be astonished, and lay the hand upon the  mouth.
Even when I think \thereon\, I am affrighted, and trembling  taketh hold of my flesh.
Wherefore do the wicked live, grow old, yea, become mighty  in power?
Their seed is established with them in their sight, and  their offspring before their eyes.
Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of +God  upon them.
Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth,  and casteth not her calf.
They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their  children dance.
They shout to the tambour and harp, and rejoice at the  sound of the pipe.
They spend their days in prosperity, and in a moment go  down to Sheol.
And they say unto ùGod, Depart from us, for we desire not  the knowledge of thy ways!
What is the Almighty that we should serve him? and what  are we profited if we pray unto him?
Behold, their prosperity is not in their hand. The counsel  of the wicked be far from me!
How often is the lamp of the wicked put out, and cometh  their calamity upon them? Doth he distribute sorrows \to them\  in his anger?
Do they become as stubble before the wind, and as chaff  that the storm carrieth away?
+God layeth up \the punishment of\ his iniquity for his  children; he rewardeth him, and he shall know \it\:
His eyes shall see his destruction, and he shall drink of  the fury of the Almighty.
For what pleasure should he have in his house after him,  when the number of his months is cut off?
Can any teach ùGod knowledge? And he it is that judgeth  those that are high.
One dieth in his full strength, being wholly at ease and  quiet;
His sides are full of fat, and the marrow of his bones is  moistened;
And another dieth in bitterness of soul, and hath not  tasted good:
Together they lie down in the dust, and the worms cover  them.
Lo, I know your thoughts, and the devices ye wrongfully  imagine against me.
For ye say, Where is the house of the noble? and where the  tent of the dwellings of the wicked?
Have ye not asked the wayfarers? and do ye not regard  their tokens:
That the wicked is reserved for the day of calamity? They  are led forth to the day of wrath.
Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall repay  him what he hath done?
Yet is he carried to the graves, and watch is kept over  the tomb.
The clods of the valley are sweet unto him; and every man  followeth suit after him, as there were innumerable before him.
How then comfort ye me in vain? Your answers remain  perfidious.
