Why are not times treasured up with the Almighty? why do  not they that know him see his days?
They remove the landmarks; they violently take away the  flocks and pasture them;
They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the  widow`s ox for a pledge;
They turn the needy out of the way: the afflicted of the  land all hide themselves.
Lo, \as\ wild asses in the desert, they go forth to their  work, seeking early for the prey: the wilderness \yieldeth\  them food for \their\ children.
They reap in the field the fodder thereof, and they gather  the vintage of the wicked;
They pass the night naked without clothing, and have no  covering in the cold;
They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and for  want of a shelter embrace the rock ...
They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a  pledge of the poor:
These go naked without clothing, and, hungry, they bear  the sheaf;
They press out oil within their walls, they tread their  winepresses, and suffer thirst.
Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the  wounded crieth out; and +God imputeth not the impiety.
There are those that rebel against the light; they know  not the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof.
The murderer riseth with the light, killeth the afflicted  and needy, and in the night is as a thief.
And the eye of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight,  saying, No eye shall see me; and he putteth a covering on \his\  face.
In the dark they dig through houses; by day they shut  themselves in; they know not the light:
For the morning is to them all \as\ the shadow of death;  for they are familiar with the terrors of the shadow of death.
He is swift on the face of the waters; their portion is  cursed on the earth: he turneth not unto the way of the  vineyards.
Drought and heat consume snow waters; so doth Sheol those  that have sinned.
The womb forgetteth him; the worm feedeth sweetly on him:  he shall be no more remembered; and unrighteousness is broken  as a tree, --
He that despoileth the barren that beareth not, and doeth  not good to the widow:
He draweth also the mighty with his power; he riseth up,  and no \man\ is sure of life.
\God\ setteth him in safety, and he resteth thereon; but  his eyes are upon their ways.
They are exalted for a little, and are no more; they are  laid low; like all \other\ are they gathered, and are cut off  as the tops of the ears of corn.
If it be not so now, who will make me a liar, and make my  speech nothing worth?
