Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold  which they refine;
Iron is taken out of the dust, and copper is molten out of  the stone.
\Man\ putteth an end to the darkness, and exploreth to the  utmost limit, the stones of darkness and of the shadow of  death.
He openeth a shaft far from the inhabitants \of the earth\:  forgotten of the foot, they hang suspended; away below men they  hover.
As for the earth, out of it cometh bread, and underneath it  is turned up as by fire;
The stones of it are the place of sapphires, and it hath  dust of gold.
It is a path no bird of prey knoweth, and the vulture`s eye  hath not seen it;
The proud beasts have not trodden it, nor the fierce lion  passed over it.
\Man\ putteth forth his hand upon the flinty rock, he  overturneth the mountains by the root.
He cutteth out channels in the rocks, and his eye seeth  every precious thing.
He bindeth the streams that they drip not, and what is  hidden he bringeth forth to light.
But wisdom, where shall it be found? and where is the  place of understanding?
Man knoweth not the value thereof; and it is not found in  the land of the living.
The deep saith, It is not in me; and the sea saith, It is  not with me.
Choice gold cannot be given for it, nor silver be weighed  for its price.
It is not set in the balance with gold of Ophir, with the  precious onyx, and the sapphire.
Gold and glass cannot be compared to it, nor vessels of  fine gold be its exchange.
Corals and crystal are no more remembered; yea, the  acquisition of wisdom is above rubies.
The topaz of Ethiopia shall not be compared to it, neither  shall it be set in the balance with pure gold.
Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of  understanding?
For it is hidden from the eyes of all living, and  concealed from the fowl of the heavens.
Destruction and death say, We have heard its report with  our ears.
God understandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth its  place:
For he looketh to the ends of the earth, he seeth under  the whole heaven.
In making a weight for the wind, and meting out the waters  by measure,
In appointing a statute for the rain, and a way for the  thunder`s flash:
Then did he see it, and declare it; he established it,  yea, and searched it out;
And unto man he said, Lo, the fear of the Lord, that is  wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding.
