After this, Job opened his mouth and cursed his day.
And Job answered and said,
Let the day perish in which I was born, and the night that  said, There is a man child conceived.
That day -- let it be darkness, let not +God care for it  from above, neither let light shine upon it:
Let darkness and the shadow of death claim it; let clouds  dwell upon it; let darkeners of the day terrify it.
That night -- let gloom seize upon it; let it not rejoice  among the days of the year; let it not come into the number of  the months.
Behold, let that night be barren; let no joyful sound come  therein;
Let them curse it that curse the day, who are ready to rouse  Leviathan;
Let the stars of its twilight be dark; let it wait for  light, and have none, neither let it see the eyelids of the  dawn:
Because it shut not up the doors of the womb that bore me,  and hid not trouble from mine eyes.
Wherefore did I not die from the womb, -- come forth from  the belly and expire?
Why did the knees meet me? and wherefore the breasts, that  I should suck?
For now should I have lain down and been quiet; I should  have slept: then had I been at rest,
With kings and counsellors of the earth, who build desolate  places for themselves,
Or with princes who had gold, who filled their houses with  silver;
Or as a hidden untimely birth I had not been; as infants  that have not seen the light.
There the wicked cease from troubling; and there the  wearied are at rest.
The prisoners together are at ease; they hear not the voice  of the taskmaster.
The small and great are there, and the bondman freed from  his master.
Wherefore is light given to him that is in trouble, and  life to those bitter of soul,
Who long for death, and it \cometh\ not, and dig for it  more than for hidden treasures;
Who rejoice even exultingly and are glad when they find the  grave? --
To the man whose way is hidden, and whom +God hath hedged  in?
For my sighing cometh before my bread, and my groanings are  poured out like the waters.
For I feared a fear, and it hath come upon me, and that  which I dreaded hath come to me.
I was not in safety, neither had I quietness, neither was I  at rest, and trouble came.
