But now they that are younger than I have me in derision,  whose fathers I would have disdained to set with the dogs of my  flock.
Yea, whereto \should\ the strength of their hands \profit\  me, \men\ in whom vigour hath perished?
Withered up through want and hunger, they flee into waste  places long since desolate and desert:
They gather the salt-wort among the bushes, and the roots  of the broom for their food.
They are driven forth from among \men\ -- they cry after  them as after a thief --
To dwell in gloomy gorges, in caves of the earth and the  rocks:
They bray among the bushes; under the brambles they are  gathered together:
Sons of fools, and sons of nameless sires, they are driven  out of the land.
And now I am their song, yea, I am their byword.
They abhor me, they stand aloof from me, yea, they spare  not to spit in my face.
For he hath loosed my cord and afflicted me; so they cast  off the bridle before me.
At \my\ right hand rise the young brood; they push away my  feet, and raise up against me their pernicious ways;
They mar my path, they set forward my calamity, without  any to help them;
They come in as through a wide breach: amid the confusion  they roll themselves onward.
Terrors are turned against me; they pursue mine honour as  the wind; and my welfare is passed away like a cloud.
And now my soul is poured out in me; days of affliction  have taken hold upon me.
The night pierceth through my bones \and detacheth them\  from me, and my gnawing pains take no rest:
By their great force they have become my raiment; they  bind me about as the collar of my coat.
He hath cast me into the mire, and I have become like dust  and ashes.
I cry unto thee, and thou answerest me not; I stand up,  and thou lookest at me.
Thou art changed to a cruel one to me; with the strength  of thy hand thou pursuest me.
Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou causest me to be  borne away, and dissolvest my substance.
For I know that thou wilt bring me to death, and into the  house of assemblage for all living.
Indeed, no prayer \availeth\ when he stretcheth out \his\  hand: though they cry when he destroyeth.
Did not I weep for him whose days were hard? was not my  soul grieved for the needy?
For I expected good, and there came evil; and I waited for  light, but there came darkness.
My bowels well up, and rest not; days of affliction have  confronted me.
I go about blackened, but not by the sun; I stand up, I  cry in the congregation.
I am become a brother to jackals, and a companion of  ostriches.
My skin is become black \and falleth\ off me, and my bones  are parched with heat.
My harp also is \turned\ to mourning, and my pipe into the  voice of weepers.
