Howbeit, Job, I pray thee, hear mine utterances, and  hearken to all my words.
Behold now, I have opened my mouth, my tongue speaketh in  my palate,
My words shall be of the uprightness of my heart, and my  lips shall utter knowledge purely.
The Spirit of ùGod hath made me, and the breath of the  Almighty hath given me life.
If thou canst, answer me; array \thy words\ before me: take  thy stand.
Behold, before ùGod I am as thou; I also am formed out of  the clay.
Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, nor my burden  be heavy upon thee.
Surely thou hast spoken in my hearing, and I have heard the  voice of \thy\ words: --
I am clean without transgression; I am pure, and there is  no iniquity in me;
Lo, he findeth occasions of hostility against me, he  counteth me for his enemy;
He putteth my feet in the stocks, he marketh all my paths.
Behold, I will answer thee in this, thou art not right;  for +God is greater than man.
Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not  account of any of his matters.
For ùGod speaketh once, and twice, -- \and man\ perceiveth  it not --
In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep  falleth upon men, in slumberings upon the bed;
Then he openeth men`s ears, and sealeth their instruction,
That he may withdraw man \from his\ work, and hide pride  from man.
He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from  passing away by the sword.
He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and with  constant strife in his bones;
And his life abhorreth bread, and his soul dainty food;
His flesh is consumed away from view, and his bones that  were not seen stick out;
And his soul draweth near to the pit, and his life to the  destroyers.
If there be a messenger with him, an interpreter, one  among a thousand, to shew unto man his duty;
Then he will be gracious unto him, and say, Deliver him  from going down to the pit: I have found a ransom.
His flesh shall be fresher than in childhood; he shall  return to the days of his youth.
He shall pray unto +God, and he will receive him with  favour; and he shall see his face with shoutings, and he will  render unto man his righteousness.
He will sing before men, and say, I have sinned, and  perverted what was right, and it hath not been requited to me;
He hath delivered my soul from going into the pit, and my  life shall see the light.
Lo, all these \things\ worketh ùGod twice, thrice, with  man,
To bring back his soul from the pit, that he may be  enlightened with the light of the living.
Mark well, Job, hearken unto me; be silent, and I will  speak.
If thou hast anything to say, answer me; speak, for I  desire to justify thee.
If not, hearken thou unto me; be silent, and I will teach  thee wisdom.
