Moreover Elihu answered and said,
Hear my words, ye wise \men\; and give ear unto me, ye that  have knowledge.
For the ear trieth words, as the palate tasteth food.
Let us choose for ourselves what is right; let us know  among ourselves what is good!
For Job hath said, I am righteous, and ùGod hath taken away  my judgment:
Should I lie against my right? My wound is incurable  without transgression.
What man is like Job? he drinketh up scorning like water,
And goeth in company with workers of iniquity, and walketh  with wicked men.
For he hath said, It profiteth not a man if he delight  himself in God.
Therefore hearken unto me, ye men of understanding: Far be  wickedness from ùGod, and wrong from the Almighty!
For a man`s work will he render to him, and cause every  one to find according to \his\ way.
Yea, surely, ùGod acteth not wickedly, and the Almighty  perverteth not judgment.
Who hath entrusted to him the earth? and who hath disposed  the whole world?
If he only thought of himself, \and\ gathered unto him his  spirit and his breath,
All flesh would expire together, and man would return to  the dust.
If now \thou hast\ understanding, hear this: give ear to  the voice of my words!
Should he that hateth right indeed govern? and wilt thou  condemn the All-just?
Shall one say to a king, Belial? to nobles, Wicked?
\How then to him\ that accepteth not the persons of  princes, nor regardeth the rich man more than the poor? for  they are all the work of his hands.
In a moment they die, even at midnight the people are  convulsed and pass away; and the strong are taken away without  hand.
For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all  his steps.
There is no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the  workers of iniquity may hide themselves.
For he doth not long consider a man, to bring him before  ùGod in judgment.
He breaketh in pieces mighty men without inquiry, and  setteth others in their stead;
Since he knoweth their actions; and he overthroweth \them\  in the night, and they are crushed.
He striketh them as wicked men in the open sight of  others,
Because they have turned back from him, and would consider  none of his ways;
So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto him,  and he heareth the cry of the afflicted.
When he giveth quietness, who then will disturb? and when  he hideth \his\ face, who shall behold him? and this towards a  nation, or towards a man alike;
That the ungodly man reign not, that the people be not  ensnared.
For hath he said unto ùGod, I bear \chastisement\, I will  not offend;
What I see not, teach thou me; if I have done wrong, I  will do so no more?
Shall he recompense according to thy mind? for thou hast  refused \his judgment\; for thou so choosest, and not I; speak  then what thou knowest.
Men of understanding will say to me, and a wise man who  heareth me:
Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words were not  with intelligence.
Would that Job may be tried unto the end, because of \his\  answers after the manner of evil men!
For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth \his  hands\ among us, and multiplieth his words against ùGod.
