And Elihu proceeded and said,
Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee that I have yet  words for +God.
I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe  righteousness to my Creator.
For truly my words shall be no falsehood: one perfect in  knowledge is with thee.
Lo, ùGod is mighty, but despiseth not \any\; mighty in  strength of understanding:
He saveth not the wicked alive; but he doeth justice to the  afflicted.
He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous, but with  kings on the throne doth he even set them for ever; and they  are exalted.
And if, bound in fetters, they be held in cords of  affliction,
Then he sheweth them their work, and their transgressions,  because they have increased.
And he openeth their ear to discipline, and commandeth  that they return from iniquity.
If they hearken and serve \him\, they shall accomplish  their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.
But if they hearken not, they shall pass away by the  sword, and expire without knowledge.
But the godless in heart heap up anger; they cry not when  he bindeth them:
Their soul dieth in youth, and their life is among the  unclean.
But he delivereth the afflicted in his affliction, and  openeth their ear in \their\ oppression.
Even so would he have allured thee out of the jaws of  distress into a broad place, where there is no straitness; and  the supply of thy table \would be\ full of fatness.
But thou art full of the judgments of the wicked: judgment  and justice take hold \on thee\.
Because there is wrath, \beware\ lest it take thee away  through chastisement: then a great ransom could not avail thee.
Will he esteem thy riches? Not gold, nor all the resources  of strength!
Desire not the night, when peoples are cut off from their  place.
Take heed, turn not to iniquity; for this hast thou chosen  rather than affliction.
Lo, ùGod is exalted in his power: who teacheth as he?
Who hath appointed him his way? or who hath said, Thou  hast wrought unrighteousness?
Remember that thou magnify his work, which men celebrate.
All men look at it; man beholdeth \it\ afar off.
Lo, ùGod is great, and we comprehend \him\ not, neither  can the number of his years be searched out.
For he draweth up the drops of water: they distil in rain  from the vapour which he formeth,
Which the skies pour down \and\ drop upon man abundantly.
But can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, \or\  the crashing of his pavilion?
Lo, he spreadeth his light around him, and covereth the  bottom of the sea.
For with them he judgeth the peoples; he giveth food in  abundance.
\His\ hands he covereth with lightning, and commandeth it  where it is to strike.
His thundering declareth concerning him; the cattle even,  concerning its coming.
