Aye, my heart trembleth at this also, and leapeth up out of  its place:
Hear attentively the roar of his voice, and the murmur  going forth from his mouth.
He sendeth it forth under the whole heaven, and his  lightning unto the ends of the earth.
After it a voice roareth: he thundereth with the voice of  his excellency, and holdeth not back the flashes when his voice  is heard.
ùGod thundereth marvellously with his voice, doing great  things which we do not comprehend.
For he saith to the snow, Fall on the earth! and to the  pouring rain, even the pouring rains of his might.
He sealeth up the hand of every man; that all men may know  his work.
And the wild beast goeth into its lair, and they remain in  their dens.
From the chamber \of the south\ cometh the whirlwind; and  cold from the winds of the north.
By the breath of ùGod ice is given; and the breadth of the  waters is straitened.
Also with plentiful moisture he loadeth the thick clouds,  his light dispels the cloud;
And they are turned every way by his guidance, that they  may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the  circuit of the earth,
Whether he cause it to come as a rod, or for his land, or  in mercy.
Hearken unto this, Job; stand still and discern the  wondrous works of ùGod.
Dost thou know how +God hath disposed them, and how he  causeth the lightning of his cloud to flash?
Dost thou know about the balancings of the clouds, the  wondrous works of him that is perfect in knowledge?
How thy garments become warm when he quieteth the earth by  the south wind?
Hast thou with him spread out the sky, firm, like a molten  mirror?
Teach us what we shall say unto him! We cannot order \our  words\ by reason of darkness.
Shall it be told him if I would speak? if a man \so\ say,  surely he shall be swallowed up.
And now \men\ see not the light as it gleameth, it is  \hidden\ in the skies. But the wind passeth by and cleareth  them.
From the north cometh gold; with +God is terrible majesty.
The Almighty, we cannot find him out: excellent in power,  and in judgment, and in abundance of justice, he doth not  afflict.
Men do therefore fear him: he respecteth not any that are  wise of heart.
