And Job answered Jehovah and said,
I know that thou canst do everything, and that thou canst  be hindered in no thought of thine.
Who is he that obscureth counsel without knowledge?  therefore have I uttered what I did not understand; things too  wonderful for me, which I knew not.
Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak: I will demand of  thee, and inform me.
I had heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine  eye seeth thee:
Wherefore I abhor \myself\, and repent in dust and ashes.
And it came to pass after Jehovah had spoken these words to  Job, that Jehovah said to Eliphaz the Temanite, Mine anger is  kindled against thee, and against thy two friends; for ye have  not spoken rightly of me, like my servant Job.
And now, take for yourselves seven bullocks and seven rams,  and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a  burnt-offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you, for him  will I accept: lest I deal with you \after your\ folly, for ye  have not spoken of me rightly, like my servant Job.
Then Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and  Zophar the Naamathite, went and did according as Jehovah had  said unto them; and Jehovah accepted Job.
And Jehovah turned the captivity of Job, when he had  prayed for his friends; and Jehovah gave Job twice as much as  he had before.
And all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they  that had been of his acquaintance before, came to him, and they  ate bread with him in his house, and they condoled with him,  and comforted him concerning all the evil that Jehovah had  brought upon him; and every one gave him a piece of money, and  every one a golden ring.
And Jehovah blessed the latter end of Job more than his  beginning; and he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand  camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she-asses.
And he had seven sons and three daughters.
And he called the name of the first, Jemimah; and the name  of the second, Keziah; and the name of the third,  Keren-happuch.
And in all the land were no women found \so\ fair as the  daughters of Job; and their father gave them inheritance among  their brethren.
And Job lived after this a hundred and forty years, and  saw his sons, and his sons` sons, four generations.
And Job died, old and full of days.
