And Job answered and said,
Oh that my grief were thoroughly weighed, and all my  calamity laid in the balances!
For now it would be heavier than the sand of the seas;  therefore my words are vehement.
For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, their poison  drinketh up my spirit: the terrors of +God are arrayed against  me.
Doth the wild ass bray by the grass? loweth an ox over his  fodder?
Shall that which is insipid be eaten without salt? Is there  any taste in the white of an egg?
What my soul refuseth to touch, that is as my loathsome  food.
Oh that I might have my request, and that +God would grant  my desire!
And that it would please +God to crush me, that he would let  loose his hand and cut me off!
Then should I yet have comfort; and in the pain which  spareth not I would rejoice that I have not denied the words of  the Holy One.
What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is mine  end, that I should have patience?
Is my strength the strength of stones? is my flesh of  brass?
Is it not that there is no help in me, and soundness is  driven away from me?
For him that is fainting kindness \is meet\ from his  friend; or he forsaketh the fear of the Almighty.
My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a stream, as the  channel of streams which pass away,
Which are turbid by reason of the ice, in which the snow  hideth itself:
At the time they diminish, they are dried up; when heat  affecteth them, they vanish from their place:
They wind about in the paths of their course, they go off  into the waste and perish.
The caravans of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba counted  on them:
They are ashamed at their hope; they come thither, and are  confounded.
So now ye are nothing; ye see a terrible object and are  afraid.
Did I say, Bring unto me, and make me a present from your  substance?
Or, rescue me from the hand of the oppressor, and redeem me  from the hand of the violent?
Teach me, and I will hold my tongue; and cause me to  understand wherein I have erred.
How forcible are right words! but what doth your upbraiding  reprove?
Do ye imagine to reprove words? The speeches of one that is  desperate are indeed for the wind.
Yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless, and dig \a pit\ for your  friend.
Now therefore if ye will, look upon me; and it shall be to  your face if I lie.
Return, I pray you, let there be no wrong; yea, return  again, my righteousness shall be in it.
Is there wrong in my tongue? cannot my taste discern  mischievous things?
