I am the man that has seen affliction by the rod of his wrath.
He has led me and caused me to walk in darkness, and not in light.
Surely against me he turns his hand again and again all the day.
My flesh and my skin has he made old; he has broken my bones.
He has built against me, and compassed me with gall and travail.
He has made me to dwell in dark places, as those that have been       long dead.
He has walled me about, that I can't go forth; he has made my       chain heavy.
Yes, when I cry, and call for help, he shuts out my prayer.
He has walled up my ways with hewn stone; he has made my paths       crooked.
He is to me as a bear lying in wait, as a lion in secret places.
He has turned aside my ways, and pulled me in pieces; he has       made me desolate.
He has bent his bow, and set me as a mark for the arrow.
He has caused the shafts of his quiver to enter into my reins.
I am become a derision to all my people, and their song all the       day.
He has filled me with bitterness, he has sated me with wormwood.
He has also broken my teeth with gravel stones; he has covered       me with ashes.
You have removed my soul far off from peace; I forgot prosperity.
I said, My strength is perished, and my expectation from Yahweh.
Remember my affliction and my misery, the wormwood and the gall.
My soul still remembers them, and is bowed down within me.
This I recall to my mind; therefore have I hope.
\It is of\ Yahweh's lovingkindnesses that we are not consumed,       because his compassion doesn't fail.
They are new every morning; great is your faithfulness.
Yahweh is my portion, says my soul; therefore will I hope in him.
Yahweh is good to those who wait for him, to the soul that seeks       him.
It is good that a man should hope and quietly wait for the       salvation of Yahweh.
It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth.
Let him sit alone and keep silence, because he has laid it on       him.
Let him put his mouth in the dust, if so be there may be hope.
Let him give his cheek to him who strikes him; let him be filled       full with reproach.
For the Lord will not cast off forever.
For though he cause grief, yet will he have compassion according       to the multitude of his lovingkindnesses.
For he does not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of       men.
To crush under foot all the prisoners of the earth,
To turn aside the right of a man before the face of the Most       High,
To subvert a man in his cause, the Lord doesn't approve.
Who is he who says, and it comes to pass, when the Lord doesn't       command it?
Doesn't evil and good come out of the mouth of the Most High?
Why does a living man complain, a man for the punishment of his       sins?
Let us search and try our ways, and turn again to Yahweh.
Let us lift up our heart with our hands to God in the heavens.
We have transgressed and have rebelled; you have not pardoned.
You have covered with anger and pursued us; you have killed, you       have not pitied.
You have covered yourself with a cloud, so that no prayer can       pass through.
You have made us an off-scouring and refuse in the midst of the       peoples.
All our enemies have opened their mouth wide against us.
Fear and the pit are come on us, devastation and destruction.
My eye runs down with streams of water, for the destruction of       the daughter of my people.
My eye pours down, and doesn't cease, without any intermission,
Until Yahweh look down, and see from heaven.
My eye affects my soul, because of all the daughters of my city.
They have chased me sore like a bird, those who are my enemies       without cause.
They have cut off my life in the dungeon, and have cast a stone       on me.
Waters flowed over my head; I said, I am cut off.
I called on your name, Yahweh, out of the lowest dungeon.
You heard my voice; don't hide your ear at my breathing, at my       cry.
You drew near in the day that I called on you; you said, Don't       be afraid.
Lord, you have pleaded the causes of my soul; you have redeemed       my life.
Yahweh, you have seen my wrong; judge you my cause.
You have seen all their vengeance and all their devices against       me.
You have heard their reproach, Yahweh, and all their devices       against me,
The lips of those that rose up against me, and their device       against me all the day.
See you their sitting down, and their rising up; I am their song.
You will render to them a recompense, Yahweh, according to the       work of their hands.
You will give them hardness of heart, your curse to them.
You will pursue them in anger, and destroy them from under the       heavens of Yahweh.
