But as to times and dates it is unnecessary that anything be written to you.
For you yourselves know perfectly well that the day of the Lord comes like a thief in the night.
While they are saying "Peace and safety!" then in a moment destruction falls upon them, like birth-pains on a woman who is with child; and escape there is none.
But you, brethren, are not in darkness, that daylight should surprise you like a thief;
for all of you are sons of Light and sons of the day. We belong neither to the night nor to darkness.
So then let us not sleep, like the rest of the world, but let us keep awake and be sober.
For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who drink freely, drink at night.
But let us, belonging--as we do--to the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation.
For God has not pre-destined us to meet His anger, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ;
who died on our behalf, so that whether we are  awake or are sleeping we may share His Life.
Therefore encourage one another, and let each one help to strengthen his friend, as in fact you do.
Now we beg you, brethren, to  show respect for those who labour among you and are your leaders in Christian work, and are your advisers;
and to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. Be at peace among yourselves.
And we exhort you, brethren, admonish the unruly, comfort the timid, sustain the weak, and be patient towards all.
See to it that no one ever repays another with evil for evil; but always seek opportunities of doing good both to one another and to all the world.
Be always joyful.
Be unceasing in prayer.
In every circumstance of life be thankful; for this is God's will in Christ Jesus respecting you.
Do not quench the Spirit.
Do not think meanly of utterances of prophecy;
but test all such, and retain hold of the good.
Hold yourselves aloof from every form of evil.
And may God Himself who gives peace, make you entirely holy; and may your spirits, souls and  bodies be preserved complete and be found blameless at the Coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is He who calls you, and He will also perfect His work.
Brethren, pray for us.
Greet all the brethren with a holy kiss.
I solemnly charge you in the Lord's name to have this Letter read to all the brethren.
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
