How hath the Lord covered the daughter of Zion with a       cloud in his anger! He hath cast down from heaven unto the earth the beauty of       Israel, And hath not remembered his footstool in the day of his anger.
The Lord hath swallowed up all the habitations of Jacob,       and hath not pitied: He hath thrown down in his wrath the strongholds of the daughter       of Judah; He hath brought them down to the ground; he hath profaned the       kingdom and the princes thereof.
He hath cut off in fierce anger all the horn of Israel; He hath drawn back his right hand from before the enemy: And he hath burned up Jacob like a flaming fire, which devoureth       round about.
He hath bent his bow like an enemy, he hath stood with his       right hand as an adversary, And hath slain all that were pleasant to the eye: In the tent of the daughter of Zion he hath poured out his wrath       like fire.
The Lord is become as an enemy, he hath swallowed up       Israel; He hath swallowed up all her palaces, he hath destroyed his       strongholds; And he hath multiplied in the daughter of Judah mourning and       lamentation.
And he hath violently taken away his tabernacle, as if it       were of a garden; he hath destroyed his place of assembly: Jehovah hath caused solemn assembly and sabbath to be forgotten       in Zion, And hath despised in the indignation of his anger the king and       the priest.
The Lord hath cast off his altar, he hath abhorred his       sanctuary; He hath given up into the hand of the enemy the walls of her       palaces: They have made a noise in the house of Jehovah, as in the day of       a solemn assembly.
Jehovah hath purposed to destroy the wall of the daughter       of Zion; He hath stretched out the line, he hath not withdrawn his hand       from destroying; And he hath made the rampart and wall to lament; they languish       together.
Her gates are sunk into the ground; he hath destroyed and       broken her bars: Her king and her princes are among the nations where the law is       not; Yea, her prophets find no vision from Jehovah.
The elders of the daughter of Zion sit upon the ground,       they keep silence; They have cast up dust upon their heads; they have girded       themselves with sackcloth: The virgins of Jerusalem hang down their heads to the ground.
Mine eyes do fail with tears, my heart is troubled; My liver is poured upon the earth, because of the destruction of       the daughter of my people, Because the young children and the sucklings swoon in the       streets of the city.
They say to their mothers, Where is grain and wine? When they swoon as the wounded in the streets of the city, When their soul is poured out into their mothers` bosom.
What shall I testify unto thee? what shall I liken to       thee, O daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I compare to thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgin       daughter of Zion? For thy breach is great like the sea: who can heal thee?
Thy prophets have seen for thee false and foolish visions; And they have not uncovered thine iniquity, to bring back thy       captivity, But have seen for thee false oracles and causes of banishment.
All that pass by clap their hands at thee; They hiss and wag their head at the daughter of Jerusalem,       \saying\, Is this the city that men called The perfection of beauty, The       joy of the whole earth?
All thine enemies have opened their mouth wide against       thee; They hiss and gnash the teeth; they say, We have swallowed her       up; Certainly this is the day that we looked for; we have found, we       have seen it.
Jehovah hath done that which he purposed; he hath       fulfilled his word that he commanded in the days of old; He hath thrown down, and hath not pitied: And he hath caused the enemy to rejoice over thee; he hath       exalted the horn of thine adversaries.
Their heart cried unto the Lord: O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river       day and night; Give thyself no respite; let not the apple of thine eye cease.
Arise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the       watches; Pour out thy heart like water before the face of the Lord: Lift up thy hands toward him for the life of thy young children,       that faint for hunger at the head of every street.
See, O Jehovah, and behold to whom thou hast done thus! Shall the women eat their fruit, the children that are dandled       in the hands? Shall the priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctuary of       the Lord?
The youth and the old man lie on the ground in the       streets; My virgins and my young men are fallen by the sword: Thou hast slain them in the day of thine anger; thou hast       slaughtered, \and\ not pitied.
Thou hast called, as in the day of a solemn assembly, my       terrors on every side; And there was none that escaped or remained in the day of       Jehovah`s anger: Those that I have dandled and brought up hath mine enemy       consumed.
