I am the man that hath seen affliction by the rod of his       wrath.
He hath led me and caused me to walk in darkness, and not       in light.
Surely against me he turneth his hand again and again all       the day.
My flesh and my skin hath he made old; he hath broken my       bones.
He hath builded against me, and compassed me with gall and       travail.
He hath made me to dwell in dark places, as those that       have been long dead.
He hath walled me about, that I cannot go forth; he hath       made my chain heavy.
Yea, when I cry, and call for help, he shutteth out my       prayer.
He hath walled up my ways with hewn stone; he hath made my       paths crooked.
He is unto me as a bear lying in wait, as a lion in       secret places.
He hath turned aside my ways, and pulled me in pieces; he       hath made me desolate.
He hath bent his bow, and set me as a mark for the arrow.
He hath caused the shafts of his quiver to enter into my       reins.
I am become a derision to all my people, and their song       all the day.
He hath filled me with bitterness, he hath sated me with       wormwood.
He hath also broken my teeth with gravel stones; he hath       covered me with ashes.
And thou hast removed my soul far off from peace; I       forgat prosperity.
And I said, My strength is perished, and mine expectation       from Jehovah.
Remember mine affliction and my misery, the wormwood and       the gall.
My soul hath them still in remembrance, and is bowed down       within me.
This I recall to my mind; therefore have I hope.
\It is of\ Jehovah`s lovingkindnesses that we are not       consumed, because his compassions fail not.
They are new every morning; great is thy faithfulness.
Jehovah is my portion, saith my soul; therefore will I       hope in him.
Jehovah is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul       that seeketh him.
It is good that a man should hope and quietly wait for       the salvation of Jehovah.
It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth.
Let him sit alone and keep silence, because he hath laid       it upon him.
Let him put his mouth in the dust, if so be there may be       hope.
Let him give his cheek to him that smiteth him; let him       be filled full with reproach.
For the Lord will not cast off for ever.
For though he cause grief, yet will he have compassion       according to the multitude of his lovingkindnesses.
For he doth not afflict willingly, nor grieve the       children of men.
To crush under foot all the prisoners of the earth,
To turn aside the right of a man before the face of the       Most High,
To subvert a man in his cause, the Lord approveth not.
Who is he that saith, and it cometh to pass, when the       Lord commandeth it not?
Out of the mouth of the Most High cometh there not evil       and good?
Wherefore doth a living man complain, a man for the       punishment of his sins?
Let us search and try our ways, and turn again to Jehovah.
Let us lift up our heart with our hands unto God in the       heavens.
We have transgressed and have rebelled; thou hast not       pardoned.
Thou hast covered with anger and pursued us; thou hast       slain, thou hast not pitied.
Thou hast covered thyself with a cloud, so that no prayer       can pass through.
Thou hast made us an off-scouring and refuse in the midst       of the peoples.
All our enemies have opened their mouth wide against us.
Fear and the pit are come upon us, devastation and       destruction.
Mine eye runneth down with streams of water, for the       destruction of the daughter of my people.
Mine eye poureth down, and ceaseth not, without any       intermission,
Till Jehovah look down, and behold from heaven.
Mine eye affecteth my soul, because of all the daughters       of my city.
They have chased me sore like a bird, they that are mine       enemies without cause.
They have cut off my life in the dungeon, and have cast a       stone upon me.
Waters flowed over my head; I said, I am cut off.
I called upon thy name, O Jehovah, out of the lowest       dungeon.
Thou heardest my voice; hide not thine ear at my       breathing, at my cry.
Thou drewest near in the day that I called upon thee;       thou saidst, Fear not.
O Lord, thou hast pleaded the causes of my soul; thou       hast redeemed my life.
O Jehovah, thou hast seen my wrong; judge thou my cause.
Thou hast seen all their vengeance and all their devices       against me.
Thou hast heard their reproach, O Jehovah, and all their       devices against me,
The lips of those that rose up against me, and their       device against me all the day.
Behold thou their sitting down, and their rising up; I am       their song.
Thou wilt render unto them a recompense, O Jehovah,       according to the work of their hands.
Thou wilt give them hardness of heart, thy curse unto       them.
Thou wilt pursue them in anger, and destroy them from       under the heavens of Jehovah.
