How is the gold become dim! \how\ is the most pure gold       changed! The stones of the sanctuary are poured out at the head of every       street.
The precious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold, How are they esteemed as earthen pitchers, the work of the hands       of the potter!
Even the jackals draw out the breast, they give suck to       their young ones: The daughter of my people is become cruel, like the ostriches in       the wilderness.
The tongue of the sucking child cleaveth to the roof of       his mouth for thirst: The young children ask bread, and no man breaketh it unto them.
They that did feed delicately are desolate in the streets: They that were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghills.
For the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater       than the sin of Sodom, That was overthrown as in a moment, and no hands were laid upon       her.
Her nobles were purer than snow, they were whiter than       milk; They were more ruddy in body than rubies, their polishing was as       of sapphire.
Their visage is blacker than a coal; they are not known in       the streets: Their skin cleaveth to their bones; it is withered, it is become       like a stick.
They that are slain with the sword are better than they       that are slain with hunger; For these pine away, stricken through, for want of the fruits of       the field.
The hands of the pitiful women have boiled their own       children; They were their food in the destruction of the daughter of my       people.
Jehovah hath accomplished his wrath, he hath poured out       his fierce anger; And he hath kindled a fire in Zion, which hath devoured the       foundations thereof.
The kings of the earth believed not, neither all the       inhabitants of the world, That the adversary and the enemy would enter into the gates of       Jerusalem.
\It is\ because of the sins of her prophets, \and\ the       iniquities of her priests, That have shed the blood of the just in the midst of her.
They wander as blind men in the streets, they are       polluted with blood, So that men cannot touch their garments.
Depart ye, they cried unto them, Unclean! depart, depart,       touch not! When they fled away and wandered, men said among the nations,       They shall no more sojourn \here\.
The anger of Jehovah hath scattered them; he will no more       regard them: They respected not the persons of the priests, they favored not       the elders.
Our eyes do yet fail \in looking\ for our vain help: In our watching we have watched for a nation that could not save.
They hunt our steps, so that we cannot go in our streets: Our end is near, our days are fulfilled; for our end is come.
Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles of the heavens: They chased us upon the mountains, they laid wait for us in the       wilderness.
The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of Jehovah, was       taken in their pits; Of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among the       nations.
Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, that dwellest in       the land of Uz: The cup shall pass through unto thee also; thou shalt be       drunken, and shalt make thyself naked.
The punishment of thine iniquity is accomplished, O       daughter of Zion; he will no more carry thee away into       captivity: He will visit thine iniquity, O daughter of Edom; he will       uncover thy sins.
