Praise ye Jehovah. Oh give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For his lovingkindness \endureth\ forever.
Who can utter the mighty acts of Jehovah, Or show forth all his praise?
Blessed are they that keep justice, And he that doeth righteousness at all times.
Remember me, O Jehovah, with the favor that thou bearest       unto thy people; Oh visit me with thy salvation,
That I may see the prosperity of thy chosen, That I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, That I may glory with thine inheritance.
We have sinned with our fathers, We have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.
Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; They remembered not the multitude of thy lovingkindnesses, But were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea.
Nevertheless he saved them for his name`s sake, That he might make his mighty power to be known.
He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up: So he led them through the depths, as through a wilderness.
And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, And redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
And the waters covered their adversaries; There was not one of them left.
Then believed they his words; They sang his praise.
They soon forgat his works; They waited not for his counsel,
But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, And tempted God in the desert.
And he gave them their request, But sent leanness into their soul.
They envied Moses also in the camp, \And\ Aaron the saint of Jehovah.
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, And covered the company of Abiram.
And a fire was kindled in their company; The flame burned up the wicked.
They made a calf in Horeb, And worshipped a molten image.
Thus they changed their glory For the likeness of an ox that eateth grass.
They forgat God their Saviour, Who had done great things in Egypt,
Wondrous works in the land of Ham, \And\ terrible things by the Red Sea.
Therefore he said that he would destroy them, Had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, To turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy \them\.
Yea, they despised the pleasant land, They believed not his word,
But murmured in their tents, And hearkened not unto the voice of Jehovah.
Therefore he sware unto them, That he would overthrow them in the wilderness,
And that he would overthrow their seed among the       nations, And scatter them in the lands.
They joined themselves also unto Baal-peor, And ate the sacrifices of the dead.
Thus they provoked him to anger with their doings; And the plague brake in upon them.
Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment; And so the plague was stayed.
And that was reckoned unto him for righteousness, Unto all generations for evermore.
They angered him also at the waters of Meribah, So that it went ill with Moses for their sakes;
Because they were rebellious against his spirit, And he spake unadvisedly with his lips.
They did not destroy the peoples, As Jehovah commanded them,
But mingled themselves with the nations, And learned their works,
And served their idols, Which became a snare unto them.
Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters       unto demons,
And shed innocent blood, Even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, Whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan; And the land was polluted with blood.
Thus were they defiled with their works, And played the harlot in their doings.
Therefore was the wrath of Jehovah kindled against his       people, And he abhorred his inheritance.
And he gave them into the hand of the nations; And they that hated them ruled over them.
Their enemies also oppressed them, And they were brought into subjection under their hand.
Many times did he deliver them; But they were rebellious in their counsel, And were brought low in their iniquity.
Nevertheless he regarded their distress, When he heard their cry:
And he remembered for them his covenant, And repented according to the multitude of his lovingkindnesses.
He made them also to be pitied Of all those that carried them captive.
Save us, O Jehovah our God, And gather us from among the nations, To give thanks unto thy holy name, And to triumph in thy praise.
Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, From everlasting even to everlasting. And let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye Jehovah.          BOOK V      Psalm 107
