O give thanks unto Jehovah; For he is good; For his lovingkindness \endureth\ for ever.
Let the redeemed of Jehovah say \so\, Whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the adversary,
And gathered out of the lands, From the east and from the west, From the north and from the south.
They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way; They found no city of habitation.
Hungry and thirsty, Their soul fainted in them.
Then they cried unto Jehovah in their trouble, And he delivered them out of their distresses,
He led them also by a straight way, That they might go to a city of habitation.
Oh that men would praise Jehovah for his lovingkindness, And for his wonderful works to the children of men!
For he satisfieth the longing soul, And the hungry soul he filleth with good.
Such as sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, Being bound in affliction and iron,
Because they rebelled against the words of God, And contemned the counsel of the Most High:
Therefore he brought down their heart with labor; They fell down, and there was none to help.
Then they cried unto Jehovah in their trouble, And he saved them out of their distresses.
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, And brake their bonds in sunder.
Oh that men would praise Jehovah for his lovingkindness, And for his wonderful works to the children of men!
For he hath broken the gates of brass, And cut the bars of iron in sunder.
Fools because of their transgression, And because of their iniquities, are afflicted.
Their soul abhorreth all manner of food; And they draw near unto the gates of death.
Then they cry unto Jehovah in their trouble, And he saveth them out of their distresses.
He sendeth his word, and healeth them, And delivereth \them\ from their destructions.
Oh that men would praise Jehovah for his lovingkindness, And for his wonderful works to the children of men!
And let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, And declare his works with singing.
They that go down to the sea in ships, That do business in great waters;
These see the works of Jehovah, And his wonders in the deep.
For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, Which lifteth up the waves thereof.
They mount up to the heavens, they go down again to the       depths: Their soul melteth away because of trouble.
They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, And are at their wits` end.
Then they cry unto Jehovah in their trouble, And he bringeth them out of their distresses.
He maketh the storm a calm, So that the waves thereof are still.
Then are they glad because they are quiet; So he bringeth them unto their desired haven.
Oh that men would praise Jehovah for his lovingkindness, And for his wonderful works to the children of men!
Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people, And praise him in the seat of the elders.
He turneth rivers into a wilderness, And watersprings into a thirsty ground;
A fruitful land into a salt desert, For the wickedness of them that dwell therein.
He turneth a wilderness into a pool of water, And a dry land into watersprings.
And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, That they may prepare a city of habitation,
And sow fields, and plant vineyards, And get them fruits of increase.
He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied       greatly; And he suffereth not their cattle to decrease.
Again, they are diminished and bowed down Through oppression, trouble, and sorrow.
He poureth contempt upon princes, And causeth them to wander in the waste, where there is no way.
Yet setteth he the needy on high from affliction, And maketh \him\ families like a flock.
The upright shall see it, and be glad; And all iniquity shall stop her mouth.
Whoso is wise will give heed to these things; And they will consider the lovingkindnesses of Jehovah.           
