Oh give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For his lovingkindness \endureth\ for ever.
Let Israel now say, That his lovingkindness \endureth\ for ever.
Let the house of Aaron now say, That his lovingkindness \endureth\ for ever.
Let them now that fear Jehovah say, That his lovingkindness \endureth\ for ever.
Out of my distress I called upon Jehovah: Jehovah answered me \and set me\ in a large place.
Jehovah is on my side; I will not fear: What can man do unto me?
Jehovah is on my side among them that help me: Therefore shall I see \my desire\ upon them that hate me.
It is better to take refuge in Jehovah Than to put confidence in man.
It is better to take refuge in Jehovah Than to put confidence in princes.
All nations compassed me about: In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off.
They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off.
They compassed me about like bees; They are quenched as the fire of thorns: In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off.
Thou didst thrust sore at me that I might fall; But Jehovah helped me.
Jehovah is my strength and song; And he is become my salvation.
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of       the righteous: The right hand of Jehovah doeth valiantly.
The right hand of Jehovah is exalted: The right hand of Jehovah doeth valiantly.
I shall not die, but live, And declare the works of Jehovah.
Jehovah hath chastened me sore; But he hath not given me over unto death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will enter into them, I will give thanks unto Jehovah.
This is the gate of Jehovah; The righteous shall enter into it.
I will give thanks unto thee; for thou hast answered me, And art become my salvation.
The stone which the builders rejected Is become the       head of the corner.
This is Jehovah`s doing; It is marvellous in our eyes.
This is the day which Jehovah hath made; We will rejoice and be glad in it.
Save now, we beseech thee, O Jehovah: O Jehovah, we beseech thee, send now prosperity.
Blessed be he that cometh in the name of Jehovah: We have blessed you out of the house of Jehovah.
Jehovah is God, and he hath given us light: Bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar.
Thou art my God, and I will give thanks unto thee: Thou art my God, I will exalt thee.
Oh give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For his lovingkindness \endureth\ for ever.           Psalm 119            ALEPH.
