For the Chief Musician; set to Aijaleth hash-Shahar. A Psalm of David. 
My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? \Why art thou so\ far from helping me, \and from\ the words of       my groaning?
O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou answerest not; And in the night season, and am not silent.
But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel.
Our fathers trusted in thee: They trusted, and thou didst deliver them.
They cried unto thee, and were delivered: They trusted in thee, and were not put to shame.
But I am a worm, and no man; A reproach of men, and despised of the people.
All they that see me laugh me to scorn: They shoot out the lip, they shake the head, \saying\,
Commit \thyself\ unto Jehovah; Let him deliver him: Let him rescue him, seeing he delighteth in him.
But thou art he that took me out of the womb; Thou didst make me trust \when I was\ upon my mother`s breasts.
I was cast upon thee from the womb; Thou art my God since my mother bare me.
Be not far from me; for trouble is near; For there is none to help.
Many bulls have compassed me; Strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.
They gape upon me with their mouth, \As\ a ravening and a roaring lion.
I am poured out like water, And all my bones are out of joint: My heart is like wax; It is melted within me.
My strength is dried up like a potsherd; And my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; And thou hast brought me into the dust of death.
For dogs have compassed me: A company of evil-doers have inclosed me; They pierced my hands and my feet.
I may count all my bones; They look and stare upon me.
They part my garments among them, And upon my vesture do they cast lots.
But be not thou far off, O Jehovah: O thou my succor, haste thee to help me.
Deliver my soul from the sword, My darling from the power of the dog.
Save me from the lion`s mouth; Yea, from the horns of the wild-oxen thou hast answered me.
I will declare thy name unto my brethren: In the midst of the assembly will I praise thee.
Ye that fear Jehovah, praise him; All ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; And stand in awe of him, all ye the seed of Israel.
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of       the afflicted; Neither hath he hid his face from him; But when he cried unto him, he heard.
Of thee cometh my praise in the great assembly: I will pay my vows before them that fear him.
The meek shall eat and be satisfied; They shall praise Jehovah that seek after him: Let your heart live for ever.
All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn unto       Jehovah; And all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.
For the kingdom is Jehovah`s; And he is the ruler over the nations.
All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and worship: All they that go down to the dust shall bow before him, Even he that cannot keep his soul alive.
A seed shall serve him; It shall be told of the Lord unto the \next\ generation.
They shall come and shall declare his righteousness Unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done it.           
