For the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. 
In thee, O Jehovah, do I take refuge; Let me never be put to shame: Deliver me in thy righteousness.
Bow down thine ear unto me; deliver me speedily: Be thou to me a strong rock, A house of defence to save me.
For thou art my rock and my fortress; Therefore for thy name`s sake lead me and guide me.
Pluck me out of the net that they have laid privily for       me; For thou art my stronghold.
Into thy hand I commend my spirit: Thou hast redeemed me, O Jehovah, thou God of truth.
I hate them that regard lying vanities; But I trust in Jehovah.
I will be glad and rejoice in thy lovingkindness; For thou hast seen my affliction: Thou hast known my soul in adversities;
And thou hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy; Thou hast set my feet in a large place.
Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah, for I am in distress: Mine eye wasteth away with grief, \yea\, my soul and my body.
For my life is spent with sorrow, And my years with sighing: My strength faileth because of mine iniquity, And my bones are wasted away.
Because of all mine adversaries I am become a reproach, Yea, unto my neighbors exceedingly, And a fear to mine acquaintance: They that did see me without fled from me.
I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.
For I have heard the defaming of many, Terror on every side: While they took counsel together against me, They devised to take away my life.
But I trusted in thee, O Jehovah: I said, Thou art my God.
My times are in thy hand: Deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that       persecute me.
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: Save me in thy lovingkindness.
Let me not be put to shame, O Jehovah; for I have called       upon thee: Let the wicked be put to shame, let them be silent in Sheol.
Let the lying lips be dumb, Which speak against the righteous insolently, With pride and contempt.
Oh how great is thy goodness, Which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee, Which thou hast wrought for them that take refuge in thee, Before the sons of men!
In the covert of thy presence wilt thou hide them from       the plottings of man: Thou wilt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of       tongues.
Blessed be Jehovah; For he hath showed me his marvellous lovingkindness in a strong       city.
As for me, I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes: Nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications When I cried unto thee.
Oh love Jehovah, all ye his saints: Jehovah preserveth the faithful, And plentifully rewardeth him that dealeth proudly.
Be strong, and let your heart take courage, All ye that hope in Jehovah.            
