A Psalm of Asaph. The Mighty One, God, Jehovah, hath spoken, And called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going       down thereof.
Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined forth.
Our God cometh, and doth not keep silence: A fire devoureth before him, And it is very tempestuous round about him.
He calleth to the heavens above, And to the earth, that he may judge his people:
Gather my saints together unto me, Those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.
And the heavens shall declare his righteousness; For God is judge himself.     Selah
Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify unto thee: I am God, \even\ thy God.
I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices; And thy burnt-offerings are continually before me.
I will take no bullock out of thy house, Nor he-goats out of thy folds.
For every beast of the forest is mine, And the cattle upon a thousand hills.
I know all the birds of the mountains; And the wild beasts of the field are mine.
If I were hungry, I would not tell thee; For the world is mine, and the fulness thereof.
Will I eat the flesh of bulls, Or drink the blood of goats?
Offer unto God the sacrifice of thanksgiving; And pay thy vows unto the Most High:
And call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.
But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, And that thou hast taken my covenant in thy mouth,
Seeing thou hatest instruction, And castest my words behind thee?
When thou sawest a thief, thou consentedst with him, And hast been partaker with adulterers.
Thou givest thy mouth to evil, And thy tongue frameth deceit.
Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; Thou slanderest thine own mother`s son.
These things hast thou done, and I kept silence; Thou thoughtest that I was altogether such a one as thyself: \But\ I will reprove thee, and set \them\ in order before thine       eyes.
Now consider this, ye that forget God, Lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver:
Whoso offereth the sacrifice of thanksgiving glorifieth       me; And to him that ordereth his way \aright\ Will I show the salvation of God.           
