\A Psalm\ of Solomon. Give the king thy judgments, O God, And thy righteousness unto the king`s son.
He will judge thy people with righteousness, And thy poor with justice.
The mountains shall bring peace to the people, And the hills, in righteousness.
He will judge the poor of the people, He will save the children of the needy, And will break in pieces the oppressor.
They shall fear thee while the sun endureth, And so long as the moon, throughout all generations.
He will come down like rain upon the mown grass, As showers that water the earth.
In his days shall the righteous flourish, And abundance of peace, till the moon be no more.
He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, And from the River unto the ends of the earth.
They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; And his enemies shall lick the dust.
The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall render       tribute: The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.
Yea, all kings shall fall down before him; All nations shall serve him.
For he will deliver the needy when he crieth, And the poor, that hath no helper.
He will have pity on the poor and needy, And the souls of the needy he will save.
He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence; And precious will their blood be in his sight:
And they shall live; and to him shall be given of the       gold of Sheba: And men shall pray for him continually; They shall bless him all the day long.
There shall be abundance of grain in the earth upon the       top of the mountains; The fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: And they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth.
His name shall endure for ever; His name shall be continued as long as the sun: And men shall be blessed in him; All nations shall call him happy.
Blessed be Jehovah God, the God of Israel, Who only doeth wondrous things:
And blessed be his glorious name for ever; And let the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen, and Amen.
The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.          
