Dead flies cause the oil of the perfumer to send forth an evil odor; \so\ doth a little folly outweigh wisdom and honor.
A wise man`s heart is at his right hand; but a fool`s heart at his left.
Yea also, when the fool walketh by the way, his understanding faileth him, and he saith to every one \that\ he is a fool.
If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place; for gentleness allayeth great offences.
There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as it were an error which proceedeth from the ruler:
folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in a low place.
I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking like servants upon the earth.
He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh through a wall, a serpent shall bite him.
Whoso heweth out stones shall be hurt therewith; \and\ he that cleaveth wood is endangered thereby.
If the iron be blunt, and one do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.
If the serpent bite before it is charmed, then is there no advantage in the charmer.
The words of a wise man`s mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself.
The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness; and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.
A fool also multiplieth words: \yet\ man knoweth not what shall be; and that which shall be after him, who can tell him?
The labor of fools wearieth every one of them; for he knoweth not how to go to the city.
Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning!
Happy art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!
By slothfulness the roof sinketh in; and through idleness of the hands the house leaketh.
A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh glad the life; and money answereth all things.
Revile not the king, no, not in thy thought; and revile not the rich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the heavens shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.
