And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the children of Israel, and say to them, My offering, and my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, for a sweet savor to me, shall ye observe to offer to me in their due season.
And thou shalt say to them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer to the LORD; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, for a continual burnt-offering.
The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at evening.
And a tenth part of an ephah of flour for a meat-offering, mingled with a fourth part of a hin of beaten oil.
It is a continual burnt-offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savor, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD.
And the drink-offering of it shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured to the LORD for a drink-offering.
And the other lamb shalt thou offer at evening; as the meat-offering of the morning, and as the drink-offering of it, thou shalt offer it, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD.
And on the sabbath-day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth-parts of flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, and its drink-offering.
This is the burnt-offering of every sabbath, besides the continual burnt-offering, and his drink-offering.
And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt-offering to the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot;
And three tenth-parts of flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth-parts of flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, for one ram;
And a several tenth-part of flour mingled with oil for a meat-offering to one lamb, for a burnt-offering of a sweet savor, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD.
And their drink-offering shall be half a hin of wine to a bullock, and the third part of a hin to a ram, and a fourth part of a hin to a lamb: this is the burnt-offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering to the LORD shall be offered, besides the continual burnt-offering, and his drink-offering.
And on the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover of the LORD.
And on the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
On the first day shall be a holy convocation; in it ye shall do no manner of servile work.
But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt-offering to the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be to you without blemish:
And their meat-offering shall be of flour mingled with oil: three tenth-parts shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth-parts for a ram;
A several tenth-part shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
And one goat for a sin-offering, to make an atonement for you.
Ye shall offer these besides the burnt-offering in the morning, which is for a continual burnt-offering.
After this manner ye shall offer daily throughout the seven days, the food of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and his drink-offering.
And on the seventh day ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.
Also in the day of the first-fruits, when ye bring a new meat-offering to the LORD, after your weeks are ended, ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work:
But ye shall offer the burnt-offering for a sweet savor to the LORD; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year;
And their meat-offering of flour mingled with oil, three tenth-parts to one bullock, two tenth-parts to one ram,
A several tenth part to one lamb, throughout the seven lambs;
And one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you.
Ye shall offer them besides the continual burnt-offering and his meat-offering (they shall be to you without blemish) and their drink-offerings.
