These are the journeys of the children of Israel, who went forth from the land of Egypt with their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron.
And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of the LORD: and these are their journeys according to their goings out.
And they departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the morrow after the passover the children of Israel went out with a high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians.
For the Egyptians buried all their first-born, whom the LORD had smitten among them: upon their gods also the LORD executed judgments.
And the children of Israel removed from Rameses, and encamped in Succoth.
And they departed from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, which is in the edge of the wilderness.
And they removed from Etham, and turned again to Pi-hahiroth, which is before Baal-zephon: and they encamped before Migdol.
And they departed from before Pi-hahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and encamped in Marah.
And they removed from Marah, and came to Elim: and in Elim were twelve fountains of water, and seventy palm-trees; and they encamped there.
And they removed from Elim, and encamped by the Red sea.
And they removed from the Red sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin.
And they took their journey out of the wilderness of Sin, and encamped in Dophkah.
And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush.
And they removed from Alush, and encamped at Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drink.
And they departed from Rephidim, and encamped in the wilderness of Sinai.
And they removed from the desert of Sinai, and encamped at Kibroth-hattaavah.
And they departed from Kibroth-hattaavah, and encamped at Hazeroth.
And they departed from Hazeroth, and encamped in Rithmah.
And they departed from Rithmah, and encamped at Rimmon-parez.
And they departed from Rimmon-parez, and encamped in Libnah.
And they removed from Libnah, and encamped at Rissah.
And they journeyed from Rissah, and encamped in Kehelathah.
And they went from Kehelathah, and encamped in mount Shapher.
And they removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah.
And they removed from Haradah, and encamped in Makheloth.
And they removed from Makheloth, and encamped at Tahath.
And they departed from Tahath, and encamped at Tarah.
And they removed from Tarah, and encamped in Mithcah.
And they went from Mithcah, and encamped in Hashmonah.
And they departed from Hashmonah, and encamped at Moseroth.
And they departed from Moseroth, and encamped in Bene-jaakan.
And they removed from Bene-jaakan, and encamped at Hor-hagidgad.
And they went from Hor-hagidgad, and encamped in Jotbathah.
And they removed from Jotbathah, and encamped at Ebronah.
And they departed from Ebronah, and encamped at Ezion-gaber.
And they removed from Ezion-gaber, and encamped in the wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh.
And they removed from Kadesh, and encamped in mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.
And Aaron the priest ascended mount Hor at the commandment of the LORD, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children of Israel departed from the land of Egypt, in the first day of the fifth month.
And Aaron was a hundred and twenty and three years old when he died in mount Hor.
And king Arad the Canaanite who dwelt in the south in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel.
And they departed from mount Hor, and encamped in Zalmonah.
And they departed from Zalmonah, and encamped in Punon.
And they departed from Punon, and encamped in Oboth.
And they departed from Oboth, and encamped in Ije-abarim, in the border of Moab.
And they departed from Iim, and encamped in Dibon-gad.
And they removed from Dibon-gad, and encamped in Almon-diblathaim.
And they removed from Almon-diblathaim, and encamped on the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
And they departed from the mountains of Abarim, and encamped in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.
And they encamped by Jordan, from Beth-jeshimoth even to Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab.
And the LORD spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When ye have passed over Jordan into the land of Canaan;
Then ye shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all their pictures, and destroy all their molten images, and quite demolish all their high places:
And ye shall dispossess the inhabitants of the land, and dwell in it; for I have given you the land to possess it.
And ye shall divide the land by lot for an inheritance among your families: to the more ye shall give the more inheritance, and to the fewer ye shall give the less inheritance: every man's inheritance shall be in the place where his lot falleth; according to the tribes of your fathers ye shall inherit.
But if ye will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you; then it shall come to pass, that those which ye let remain of them shall be prickles in your eyes, and thorns in your sides, and shall harass you in the land in which ye dwell.
Moreover, it shall come to pass, that I shall do to you as I thought to do to them.
