The word of Jehovah that came to Joel the son of Pethuel.
Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of  the land. Hath this been in your days, or even in the days of  your fathers?
Tell your children of it, and \let\ your children \tell\  their children, and their children another generation:
that which the palmer-worm hath left hath the locust eaten;  and that which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm eaten;  and that which the cankerworm hath left hath the caterpillar  eaten.
Awake, ye drunkards, and weep; and howl, all ye drinkers of  wine, because of the new wine: for it is cut off from your  mouth.
For a nation is come up upon my land, strong and without  number: his teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he hath the  cheek teeth of a lioness.
He hath made my vine a desolation, and barked my fig-tree;  he hath made it clean bare, and cast it away: its branches are  made white.
Wail like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of  her youth.
The oblation and the drink-offering are cut off from the  house of Jehovah; the priests, Jehovah`s ministers, mourn.
The field is laid waste, the land mourneth; for the corn is  wasted, the new wine is dried up, the oil languisheth.
Be ashamed, ye husbandmen; howl, ye vinedressers, for the  wheat and for the barley: because the harvest of the field hath  perished.
The vine is dried up, and the fig-tree languisheth; the  pomegranate-tree, the palm also and the apple-tree; all the  trees of the field are withered, yea, joy is withered away from  the children of men.
Gird yourselves, and lament, ye priests; howl, ministers of  the altar; come, lie all night in sackcloth, ye ministers of my  God: for the oblation and the drink-offering are withholden  from the house of your God.
Hallow a fast, proclaim a solemn assembly, gather the  elders, \and\ all the inhabitants of the land to the house of  Jehovah your God, and cry unto Jehovah.
Alas for the day! for the day of Jehovah is at hand, and as  destruction from the Almighty shall it come.
Is not the food cut off before our eyes, joy and gladness  from the house of our God?
The seeds are rotten under their clods, the granaries are  laid desolate, the barns are broken down; for the corn is  withered.
How do the beasts groan! The herds of cattle are  bewildered, for they have no pasture; the flocks of sheep also  are in suffering.
To thee, Jehovah, do I cry; for the fire hath devoured the  pastures of the wilderness, and the flame hath burned up all  the trees of the field.
The beasts of the field also cry unto thee; for the  water-courses are dried, and the fire hath devoured the  pastures of the wilderness.
