Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble.
He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not.
And dost thou open thy eyes upon such one, and bring me into judgment with thee?
Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one.
Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months is with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass;
Turn from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as a hireling, his day.
For there is hope of a tree, if it is cut down, that it will sprout again, and that its tender branch will not cease.
Though its root shall become old in the earth, and its stock die in the ground;
Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant.
But man dieth, and wasteth away: yes, man yieldeth his breath, and where is he?
As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up:
So man lieth down, and riseth not: till the heavens shall be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep.
O that thou wouldst hide me in the grave, that thou wouldst keep me secret, until thy wrath is past, that thou wouldst appoint me a set time, and remember me!
If a man dieth, shall he live again? all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change shall come.
Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire to the work of thy hands.
For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my sin?
My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up my iniquity.
And surely the mountain falling cometh to naught, and the rock is removed out of its place.
The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which grow out of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of man.
Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth: thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away.
His sons come to honor, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them.
But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him shall mourn.
