Then Job answered and said,
I know it to be so of a truth: but how should man be just with God?
If he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one of a thousand.
He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath hardened himself against him, and hath prospered?
Who removeth the mountains, and they know not: who overturneth them in his anger.
Who shaketh the earth out of her place, and its pillars tremble.
Who commandeth the sun, and it riseth not; and sealeth up the stars.
Who alone spreadeth out the heavens, and treadeth upon the waves of the sea.
Who maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades, and the chambers of the south.
Who doeth great things past finding out; yes, and wonders without number.
Lo, he goeth by me, and I see him not: he passeth on also, but I perceive him not.
Behold, he taketh away, who can hinder him? who will say to him, What doest thou?
If God will not withdraw his anger, the proud helpers do stoop under him.
How much less shall I answer him, and choose out my words to reason with him?
Whom, though I were righteous, yet would I not answer, but I would make supplication to my judge.
If I had called, and he had answered me; yet I would not believe that he had hearkened to my voice.
For he breaketh me with a tempest, and multiplieth my wounds without cause.
He will not suffer me to take my breath, but filleth me with bitterness.
If I speak of strength, lo, he is strong: and if of judgment, who shall set me a time to plead?
If I justify myself, my own mouth will condemn me: if I say, I am perfect, that also will prove me perverse.
Though I were perfect, yet would I not know my soul: I would despise my life.
This is one thing, therefore I said it, he destroyeth the perfect and the wicked.
If the scourge shall slay suddenly, he will laugh at the trial of the innocent.
The earth is given into the hand of the wicked: he covereth the faces of its judges; if not, where, and who is he?
Now my days are swifter than a post: they flee away, they see no good.
They are passed away as the swift ships: as the eagle that hasteth to the prey.
If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will leave off my heaviness, and comfort myself:
I am afraid of all my sorrows, I know that thou wilt not hold me innocent.
If I am wicked, why then do I labor in vain?
If I wash myself with snow water, and make my hands never so clean;
Yet wilt thou plunge me in the ditch, and my own clothes shall abhor me.
For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him, and we should come together in judgment.
Neither is there any judge between us, that might lay his hand upon us both.
Let him take away his rod from me, and let not his fear terrify me:
Then would I speak, and not fear him; but it is not so with me.
