Wherefore, my brethren beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
I exhort Euodia, and I exhort Syntyche, to be of the same mind in the Lord.
Yea, I beseech thee also, true yokefellow, help these women, for they labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and the rest of my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
Rejoice in the Lord always: again I will say, Rejoice.
Let your forbearance be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand.
In nothing be anxious; but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.
The things which ye both learned and received and heard and saw in me, these things do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
But I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at length ye have revived your thought for me; wherein ye did indeed take thought, but ye lacked opportunity.
Not that I speak in respect of want: for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therein to be content.
I know how to be abased, and I know also how to abound: in everything and in all things have I learned the secret both to be filled and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in want.
I can do all things in him that strengtheneth me.
Howbeit ye did well that ye had fellowship with my affliction.
And ye yourselves also know, ye Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church had fellowship with me in the matter of giving and receiving but ye only;
for even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my need.
Not that I seek for the gift; but I seek for the fruit that increaseth to your account.
But I have all things, and abound: I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things \that came\ from you, and odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing to God.
And my God shall supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
Now unto our God and Father \be\ the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me salute you.
All the saints salute you, especially they that are of Caesar`s household.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
