And after six days, Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John his brother, and bringeth them upon a high mountain apart.
And he was transfigured before them: and his face shone as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light.
And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah talking with him.
Then answered Peter, and said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here: if thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
While he was yet speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold, a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased: hear ye him.
And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, and were in great fear.
And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraid.
And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man, save Jesus only.
And as they were descending the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying, Tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be raised again from the dead.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then say the scribes, that Elijah must first come?
And Jesus answered and said to them, Elijah truly will first come, and restore all things:
But I say to you, that Elijah is come already, and they knew him not, but have done to him whatever they pleased: likewise will also the Son of man suffer by them.
Then the disciples understood that he spoke to them concerning John the Baptist.
And when they had come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man kneeling down to him, and saying,
Lord, have mercy on my son; for he is lunatic, and grievously distressed; for often he falleth into the fire, and often into the water.
And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him.
Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him hither to me.
And Jesus rebuked the demon, and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour.
Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast him out?
And Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say to you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard-seed, ye shall say to this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place, and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible to you.
However, this kind goeth not out, but by prayer and fasting.
And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of man will be betrayed into the hands of men:
And they will kill him, and the third day he will be raised again: And they were exceedingly grieved.
And when they had come to Capernaum, they that received tribute-money, came to Peter, and said, Doth not your Master pay tribute?
He saith, Yes. And when he had come into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? from whom do the kings of the earth take custom or tribute? from their own children, or from strangers?
Peter saith to him, From strangers. Jesus saith to him, Then are the children free.
