And Jesus answered, and spoke to them again by parables, and said,
The kingdom of heaven is like to a certain king, who made a marriage for his son,
And sent his servants to call them that were invited to the wedding: and they would not come.
Again, he sent other servants, saying, Tell them who are invited, Behold, I have prepared my dinner: my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come to the marriage.
But they made light of it, and went, one to his farm, another to his merchandise.
And the remnant took his servants, and treated them spitefully, and slew them.
But when the king heard of it, he was wroth: and he sent his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city.
Then he saith to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they who were invited were not worthy.
Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, invite to the marriage.
So those servants went out into the highways, and collected all as many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests.
And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man who had not a wedding-garment:
And he saith to him, Friend, how camest thou in hither, not having a wedding-garment? And he was speechless.
Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into utter darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
For many are called, but few are chosen.
Then went the Pharisees, and took counsel how they might entangle him in his talk.
And they sent out to him their disciples, with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for any man: for thou regardest not the person of men.
Tell us therefore, What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute to Cesar, or not?
But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites?
Show me the tribute-money. And they brought to him a penny.
And he saith to them, Whose is this image, and superscription?
They say to him, Cesar's. Then saith he to them, Render therefore to Cesar, the things which are Cesar's; and to God, the things that are God's.
When they had heard these words, they marveled, and left him, and departed.
The same day came to him the Sadducees, who say that there is no resurrection, and asked him,
Saying, Master, Moses said, If a man shall die, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed to his brother.
Now there were with us seven brothers: and the first, when he had married a wife, deceased; and having no issue, left his wife to his brother.
Likewise the second also, and the third, to the seventh.
And last of all the woman died also.
Therefore in the resurrection, whose wife shall she be of the seven? for they all had her.
Jesus answered and said to them, Ye do err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God.
For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven.
But as concerning the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken to you by God, saying,
I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
And when the multitude heard this, they were astonished at his doctrine.
But when the Pharisees had heard that he had put the Sadducees to silence, they were assembled about him.
Then one of them who was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying,
Master, which is the great commandment in the law?
Jesus said to him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.
This is the first and great commandment.
And the second is like it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.
On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.
While the Pharisees were assembled, Jesus asked them,
Saying, What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? They say to him, The son of David.
He saith to them, How then doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying,
The LORD said to my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thy enemies thy footstool?
If David then calleth him Lord, how is he his son?
And no man was able to answer him a word, neither durst any man, from that day forth, ask him any more questions.
