And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, that they bring me an offering: of every man that giveth it willingly with his heart ye shall take my offering.
And this is the offering which ye shall take of them; gold, and silver and brass,
And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair.
And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers' skins, and shittim wood.
Oil for the light, spices for anointing oil, and for sweet incense,
Onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod, and in the breast-plate.
And let them make me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them.
According to all that I show thee after the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all its instruments, even so shall ye make it.
And they shall make an ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its hight.
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold around it.
And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in its four corners; and two rings shall be in the one side of it, and two rings in the other side of it.
And thou shalt make staffs of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold.
And thou shalt put the staffs into the rings by the sides of the ark, that the ark may be borne with them.
The staffs shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it.
And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee.
And thou shalt make a mercy-seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth.
And thou shalt make two cherubim of gold, of beaten work shalt thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy-seat.
And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the other end: even of the mercy-seat shall ye make the cherubim on its two ends.
And the cherubim shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, and their faces shall look one to another; towards the mercy-seat shall the faces of the cherubim be.
And thou shalt put the mercy-seat above upon the ark; and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee.
And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment to the children of Israel.
Thou shalt also make a table of shittim wood: its length shall be two cubits, and its breadth a cubit, and its hight a cubit and a half.
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make to it a crown of gold around it.
And thou shalt make to it a border of an hand-breadth around it, and thou shalt make a golden crown to its border around it.
And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on its four feet.
Over against the border shall the rings be for places of the staffs to bear the table.
And thou shalt make the staffs of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them.
And thou shalt make its dishes, and its spoons, and its covers, and its bowls, to cover it with: of pure gold shalt thou make them.
And thou shalt set upon the table show-bread before me always.
And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candlestick be made: its shaft, and its branches, its bowls, its knobs, and its flowers, shall be of the same.
And six branches shall extend from the sides of it; three branches of the candlestick from the one side, and three branches of the candlestick from the other side:
Three bowls made like to almonds, with a knob and a flower in one branch; and three bowls made like almonds in the other branch, with a knob and a flower: so in the six branches that project from the candlestick.
And in the candlesticks shall be four bowls made like to almonds, with their knobs and their flowers.
And there shall be a knob under two branches of the same, and a knob under two branches of the same, and a knob under two branches of the same, according to the six branches that project from the candlestick.
Their knobs and their branches shall be of the same: all of it shall be one beaten work of pure gold.
And thou shalt make its seven lamps: and they shall light its lamps, that they may give light over against it.
And its tongs, and its snuff-dishes, shall be of pure gold.
Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it, with all these vessels.
And look that thou make them after their pattern, which was shown thee on the mount.
