Then the LORD said to Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh; for with a strong hand shall he let them go, and with a strong hand shall he drive them from his land.
And God spoke to Moses, and said to him, I am the LORD:
And I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, by the name of God Almighty, but by my name JEHOVAH was I not known to them.
And I have also established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, in which they were strangers.
And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage: and I have remembered my covenant.
Wherefore say to the children of Israel, I am the LORD, and I will bring you from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage, and I will redeem you with out-stretched arm, and with great judgments:
And I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God: and ye shall know that I am the LORD your God, who bringeth you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
And I will bring you into the land, concerning which I swore to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it to you for a heritage: I am the LORD.
And Moses spoke so to the children of Israel: but they hearkened not to Moses, by reason of anguish of spirit, and cruel bondage.
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Go in, speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel depart from his land.
And Moses spoke before the LORD, saying, Behold, the children of Israel have not hearkened to me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who am of uncircumcised lips?
And the LORD spoke to Moses, and to Aaron, and gave them a charge to the children of Israel, and to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
These are the heads of their father's houses: The sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi: these are the families of Reuben.
And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman: these are the families of Simeon.
And these are the names of the sons of Levi, according to their generations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. And the years of the life of Levi were a hundred and thirty-seven years.
The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to their families.
And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel: and the years of the life of Kohath were a hundred and thirty-three years.
And the sons of Merari; Mahali and Mushi: these are the families of Levi, according to their generations.
And Amram took him Jochebed, his father's sister, for a wife; and she bore him Aaron and Moses. And the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty-seven years.
And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.
And Aaron took him Elisheba daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naashon, for a wife; and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
And the sons of Korah; Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these are the families of the Korhites.
And Eleazar, Aaron's son, took him one of the daughters of Putiel for a wife; and she bore to him Phinehas: these are the heads of the fathers of the Levites, according to their families.
These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD said, Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.
These are they who spoke to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt: these are that Moses and Aaron.
And it came to pass, on the day when the LORD spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt,
That the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, I am the LORD: speak thou to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, all that I say to thee.
And Moses said before the LORD, Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken to me?
