And it came to pass at that time, that Amraphel king of Sennaar, and Arioch king of Pontus, and Chodorlahomor king of the Elamites, and Thadal king of nations,
Made war against Bara king of Sodom, and against Bersa king of Gomorrha, and against Sennaab king of Adama, and against Semeber king of Seboim, and against the king of Bala, which is Segor.
All these came together into the woodland vale, which now is the salt sea.
For they had served Chodorlahomor twelve years, and in the thirteenth year they revolted from him.
And in the fourteenth year came Chodorlahomor, and the kings that were with him: and they smote the Raphaim in Astarothcarnaim, and the Zuzim with them, and the Emim in Save of Cariathaim.
And the Chorreans in the mountains of Seir, even to the plains of Pharan, which is in the wilderness.
And they returned, and came to the fountain of Misphat, the same is Cades: and they smote all the country of the Amalecites, and the Amorrhean that dwelt in Asasonthamar.
And the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrha, and the king of Adama, and the king of Seboim, and the king of Bala, which is Segor, went out: and they set themselves against them in battle array in the woodland vale:
To wit, against Chodorlahomor king of the Elamites, and Thadal king of nations, and Amraphel king of Sennaar, and Arioch king of Pontus: four kings against five.
Now the woodland vale had many pits of slime. And the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrha turned their backs and were overthrown there: and they that remained fled to the mountain.
And they took all the substance of the Sodomites, and Gomorrhites, and all their victuals, and went their way:
And Lot also, the son of Abram's brother, who dwelt in Sodom, and his substance.
And behold one that had escaped told Abram the Hebrew, who dwelt in the vale of Mambre the Amorrhite, the brother of Escol, and the brother of Aner: for these had made league with Abram.
Which when Abram had heard, to wit, that his brother Lot was taken, he numbered of the servants born in his house, three hundred and eighteen well appointed: and pursued them to Dan.
And dividing his company, he rushed upon them in the night: and defeated them, and pursued them as far as Hoba, which is on the left hand of Damascus.
And he brought back all the substance, and Lot his brother, with his substance, the women also the people.
And the king of Sodom went out to meet him, after he returned from the slaughter of Chodorlahomor, and of the kings that were with him in the vale of Save, which is the king's vale.
But Melchisedech the king of Salem, bringing forth bread and wine, for he was the priest of the most high God,
Blessed him, and said: Blessed be Abram by the most high God, who created heaven and earth.
And blessed be the most high God, by whose protection the enemies are in thy hands. And he gace him the tithes of all.
And the king of Sodom said to Abram: Give me the persons, and the rest take to thyself.
And he answered him: I lift up my hand to the Lord God the most high, the possessor of heaven and earth,
That from the very woof thread unto the shoe latchet, I will not take of any things that are thine, lest thou say I have enriched Abram:
Except such things as the young men have eaten, and the shares of the men that came with me, Aner, Escol, and Mambre: these shall take their shares.
