Brethren, the delight of my own heart and my supplication  which \I address\ to God for them is for salvation.
For I bear them witness that they have zeal for God, but  not according to knowledge.
For they, being ignorant of God`s righteousness, and  seeking to establish their own \righteousness\, have not  submitted to the righteousness of God.
For Christ is \the\ end of law for righteousness to every  one that believes.
For Moses lays down in writing the righteousness which is  of the law, The man who has practised those things shall live  by them.
But the righteousness of faith speaks thus: Do not say in  thine heart, Who shall ascend to the heavens? that is, to bring  Christ down;
or, Who shall descend into the abyss? that is, to bring up  Christ from among \the\ dead.
But what says it? The word is near thee, in thy mouth and  in thy heart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach:
that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth Jesus as Lord,  and shalt believe in thine heart that God has raised him from  among \the\ dead, thou shalt be saved.
For with \the\ heart is believed to righteousness; and  with \the\ mouth confession made to salvation.
For the scripture says, No one believing on him shall be  ashamed.
For there is no difference of Jew and Greek; for the same  Lord of all \is\ rich towards all that call upon him.
For every one whosoever, who shall call on the name of the  Lord, shall be saved.
How then shall they call upon him in whom they have not  believed? and how shall they believe on him of whom they have  not heard? and how shall they hear without one who preaches?
and how shall they preach unless they have been sent?  according as it is written, How beautiful the feet of them that  announce glad tidings of peace, of them that announce glad  tidings of good things!
But they have not all obeyed the glad tidings. For Esaias  says, Lord, who has believed our report?
So faith then \is\ by a report, but the report by God`s  word.
But I say, Have they not heard? Yea, surely, Their voice  has gone out into all the earth, and their words to the  extremities of the habitable world.
But I say, Has not Israel known? First, Moses says, *I*  will provoke you to jealousy through \them that are\ not a  nation: through a nation without understanding I will anger  you.
But Esaias is very bold, and says, I have been found by  those not seeking me; I have become manifest to those not  inquiring after me.
But unto Israel he says, All the day long I have stretched  out my hands unto a people disobeying and opposing.
