Bless Jehovah, O my soul! Jehovah my God, thou art very  great; thou art clothed with majesty and splendour;
Covering thyself with light as with a garment, stretching  out the heavens like a tent-curtain; --
Who layeth the beams of his upper chambers in the waters,  who maketh clouds his chariot, who walketh upon the wings of  the wind;
Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flame of  fire.
He laid the earth upon its foundations: it shall not be  removed for ever.
Thou hadst covered it with the deep, as with a vesture;  the waters stood above the mountains:
At thy rebuke they fled, at the voice of thy thunder they  hasted away; --
The mountains rose, the valleys sank, unto the place which  thou hadst founded for them; --
Thou hast set a bound which they may not pass over, that  they turn not again to cover the earth.
He sendeth the springs into the valleys: they run among  the mountains;
They give drink to every beast of the field; the wild  asses quench their thirst.
The birds of heaven dwell by them; they give forth their  voice from among the branches.
He watereth the mountains from his upper-chambers: the  earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works.
He maketh the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for  the service of man; bringing forth bread out of the earth,
And wine which gladdeneth the heart of man; making \his\  face shine with oil; and with bread he strengtheneth man`s  heart.
The trees of Jehovah are satisfied, the cedars of  Lebanon, which he hath planted,
Where the birds make their nests; \as for\ the stork, the  fir trees are her house.
The high mountains are for the wild goats; the cliffs, a  refuge for the rock-badgers.
He made the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth its going  down.
Thou makest darkness, and it is night, wherein all the  beasts of the forest creep forth:
The young lions roar after the prey, and to seek their  food from ùGod.
The sun ariseth, they retreat, and lay them down in their  dens.
Man goeth forth unto his work, and to his labour until  the evening.
How manifold are thy works, O Jehovah! in wisdom hast  thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.
Yonder is the great and wide sea: therein are moving  things innumerable, living creatures small and great.
There go the ships; \there\ that leviathan, which thou  hast formed to play therein.
These all look unto thee, that thou mayest give their  food in its season:
That thou givest unto them, they gather; thou openest thy  hand, they are filled with good.
Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled; thou takest away  their breath, they expire and return to their dust.
Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created, and thou  renewest the face of the earth.
The glory of Jehovah will endure for ever; Jehovah will  rejoice in his works.
He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth; he toucheth  the mountains, and they smoke.
I will sing unto Jehovah as long as I live; I will sing  psalms to my God while I have my being.
My meditation shall be pleasant unto him; I will rejoice  in Jehovah.
Sinners shall be consumed out of the earth, and the  wicked shall be no more. Bless Jehovah, O my soul. Hallelujah!
