Give ye thanks unto Jehovah, call upon his name; make  known his acts among the peoples.
Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him; meditate upon all his  wondrous works.
Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice  that seek Jehovah.
Seek Jehovah and his strength, seek his face continually;
Remember his wondrous works which he hath done, his  miracles and the judgments of his mouth:
Ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye sons of Jacob, his  chosen ones.
He, Jehovah, is our God; his judgments are in all the  earth.
He is ever mindful of his covenant, -- the word which he  commanded to a thousand generations, --
Which he made with Abraham, and of his oath unto Isaac;
And he confirmed it unto Jacob for a statute, unto Israel  for an everlasting covenant,
Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot  of your inheritance;
When they were a few men in number, of small account, and  strangers in it.
And they went from nation to nation, from one kingdom to  another people.
He suffered no man to oppress them, and reproved kings  for their sakes,
\Saying,\ Touch not mine anointed ones, and do my  prophets no harm.
And he called for a famine upon the land; he broke the  whole staff of bread.
He sent a man before them: Joseph was sold for a bondman.
They afflicted his feet with fetters; his soul came into  irons;
Until the time when what he said came about: the word of  Jehovah tried him.
The king sent and loosed him -- the ruler of peoples --  and let him go free.
He made him lord of his house, and ruler over all his  possessions:
To bind his princes at his pleasure, and teach his elders  wisdom.
And Israel came into Egypt, and Jacob sojourned in the  land of Ham.
And he made his people exceeding fruitful, and made them  mightier than their oppressors.
He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal  subtilly with his servants.
He sent Moses his servant, \and\ Aaron whom he had  chosen:
They set his signs among them, and miracles in the land  of Ham.
He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not  against his word.
He turned their waters into blood, and caused their fish  to die.
Their land swarmed with frogs, -- in the chambers of  their kings.
He spoke, and there came dog-flies, \and\ gnats in all  their borders.
He gave them hail for rain, \and\ flaming fire in their  land;
And he smote their vines and their fig-trees, and broke  the trees of their borders.
He spoke, and the locust came, and the cankerworm, even  without number;
And they devoured every herb in their land, and ate up  the fruit of their ground.
And he smote every firstborn in their land, the  firstfruits of all their vigour.
And he brought them forth with silver and gold; and there  was not one feeble among their tribes.
Egypt rejoiced at their departure; for the fear of them  had fallen upon them.
He spread a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light  in the night.
They asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them  with the bread of heaven.
He opened the rock, and waters gushed forth; they ran in  the dry places \like\ a river.
For he remembered his holy word, \and\ Abraham his  servant;
And he brought forth his people with gladness, his chosen  with rejoicing;
And he gave them the lands of the nations, and they took  possession of the labour of the peoples:
That they might keep his statutes, and observe his laws.  Hallelujah!
