Hallelujah! Give ye thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good;  for his loving-kindness \endureth\ for ever.
Who can utter the mighty acts of Jehovah? \who\ can shew  forth all his praise?
Blessed are they that keep justice, \and\ he that doeth  righteousness at all times.
Remember me, O Jehovah, with \thy\ favour toward thy  people; visit me with thy salvation:
That I may see the prosperity of thy chosen ones, that I  may rejoice in the joy of thy nation, that I may glory with  thine inheritance.
We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed  iniquity, we have done wickedly.
Our fathers in Egypt considered not thy wondrous works;  they remembered not the multitude of thy loving-kindnesses; but  they rebelled at the sea, at the Red Sea.
Yet he saved them for his name`s sake, that he might make  known his might.
And he rebuked the Red Sea, and it dried up; and he led  them through the deeps as through a wilderness.
And he saved them from the hand of him that hated \them\,  and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
And the waters covered their oppressors: there was not  one of them left.
Then believed they his words; they sang his praise.
They soon forgot his works; they waited not for his  counsel:
And they lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and  tempted ùGod in the desert.
Then he gave them their request, but sent leanness into  their soul.
And they envied Moses in the camp, \and\ Aaron, the saint  of Jehovah.
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the  company of Abiram;
And fire was kindled in their company; a flame burned up  the wicked.
They made a calf in Horeb, and did homage to a molten  image;
And they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox  that eateth grass.
They forgot ùGod their Saviour, who had done great things  in Egypt,
Wondrous works in the land of Ham, terrible things by the  Red Sea.
And he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses,  his chosen, stood before him in the breach, to turn away his  fury, lest he should destroy \them\.
And they despised the pleasant land; they believed not  his word,
But murmured in their tents: they hearkened not unto the  voice of Jehovah.
And he lifted up his hand to them, that he would make  them fall in the wilderness;
And that he would make their seed fall among the nations,  and disperse them through the countries.
And they joined themselves unto Baal-Peor, and ate the  sacrifices of the dead;
And they provoked \him\ to anger with their doings; and a  plague broke out among them.
Then stood up Phinehas and executed judgment, and the  plague was stayed;
And that was reckoned unto him for righteousness, from  generation to generation, for evermore.
And they moved him to wrath at the waters of Meribah, and  it went ill with Moses on their account;
For they provoked his spirit, so that he spoke  unadvisedly with his lips.
They did not destroy the peoples, as Jehovah commanded  them;
But they mingled with the nations, and learned their  works;
And they served their idols; and they were a snare unto  them:
And they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto  demons,
And shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and of  their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan;  and the land was polluted with blood.
And they were defiled with their works, and went  a-whoring in their doings.
Then was the anger of Jehovah kindled against his people,  and he abhorred his inheritance;
And he gave them into the hand of the nations; and they  that hated them ruled over them:
And their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought  into subjection under their hand.
Often did he deliver them; but as for them they provoked  \him\ by their counsel, and they were brought low by their  iniquity.
But he regarded their distress, when he heard their cry;
And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented  according to the multitude of his loving-kindnesses;
And he caused them to find compassion of all those that  had carried them captives.
Save us, Jehovah our God, and gather us from among the  nations, to give thanks unto thy holy name, \and\ to triumph in  thy praise.
Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, from eternity and  to eternity! And let all the people say, Amen! Hallelujah!
