{To the chief Musician. Of David. A Psalm.} O God of my  praise, be not silent:
For the mouth of the wicked \man\ and the mouth of deceit  are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying  tongue,
And with words of hatred have they encompassed me; and  they fight against me without a cause.
For my love they are mine adversaries; but I \give myself  unto\ prayer.
And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my  love.
Set a wicked \man\ over him, and let \the\ adversary stand  at his right hand;
When he shall be judged, let him go out guilty, and let  his prayer become sin;
Let his days be few, let another take his office;
Let his sons be fatherless, and his wife a widow;
Let his sons be vagabonds and beg, and let them seek  \their bread\ far from their desolate places;
Let the usurer cast the net over all that he hath, and  let strangers despoil his labour;
Let there be none to extend kindness unto him, neither  let there be any to favour his fatherless children;
Let his posterity be cut off; in the generation following  let their name be blotted out:
Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with  Jehovah, and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out;
Let them be before Jehovah continually, that he may cut  off the memory of them from the earth:
Because he remembered not to shew kindness, but  persecuted the afflicted and needy man, and the broken in  heart, to slay him.
And he loved cursing; so let it come unto him. And he  delighted not in blessing; and let it be far from him.
And he clothed himself with cursing like his vestment; so  let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his  bones;
Let it be unto him as a garment with which he covereth  himself, and for a girdle wherewith he is constantly girded.
Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from Jehovah,  and of them that speak evil against my soul.
But do *thou* for me, Jehovah, Lord, for thy name`s sake;  because thy loving-kindness is good, deliver me:
For I am afflicted and needy, and my heart is wounded  within me.
I am gone like a shadow when it lengtheneth; I am tossed  about like the locust;
My knees are failing through fasting, and my flesh hath  lost its fatness;
And I am become a reproach unto them; \when\ they look  upon me they shake their heads.
Help me, Jehovah my God; save me according to thy  loving-kindness:
That they may know that this is thy hand; that *thou*,  Jehovah, hast done it.
Let *them* curse, but bless *thou*; when they rise up,  let them be ashamed, and let thy servant rejoice.
Let mine adversaries be clothed with confusion, and let  them cover themselves with their shame as with a mantle.
I will greatly celebrate Jehovah with my mouth; yea, I  will praise him among the multitude.
For he standeth at the right hand of the needy, to save  him from those that judge his soul.
