Give ye thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; for his  loving-kindness \endureth\ for ever.
Oh let Israel say, that his loving-kindness \endureth\ for  ever.
Oh let the house of Aaron say, that his loving-kindness  \endureth\ for ever.
Oh let them that fear Jehovah say, that his  loving-kindness \endureth\ for ever.
I called upon Jah in distress; Jah answered me \and set  me\ in a large place.
Jehovah is for me, I will not fear; what can man do unto  me?
Jehovah is for me among them that help me; and I shall see  \my desire\ upon them that hate me.
It is better to trust in Jehovah than to put confidence in  man;
It is better to trust in Jehovah than to put confidence in  nobles.
All nations encompassed me; but in the name of Jehovah  have I destroyed them.
They encompassed me, yea, encompassed me; but in the name  of Jehovah have I destroyed them.
They encompassed me like bees; they are quenched as the  fire of thorns: for in the name of Jehovah have I destroyed  them.
Thou hast thrust hard at me that I might fall; but  Jehovah helped me.
My strength and song is Jah, and he is become my  salvation.
The voice of triumph and salvation is in the tents of the  righteous: the right hand of Jehovah doeth valiantly;
The right hand of Jehovah is exalted, the right hand of  Jehovah doeth valiantly.
I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of Jah.
Jah hath chastened me sore; but he hath not given me over  unto death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will enter into  them; Jah will I praise.
This is the gate of Jehovah: the righteous shall enter  therein.
I will give thee thanks, for thou hast answered me, and  art become my salvation.
\The\ stone which the builders rejected hath become the  head of the corner:
This is of Jehovah; it is wonderful in our eyes.
This is the day that Jehovah hath made; we will rejoice  and be glad in it.
Oh save, Jehovah, I beseech thee; Jehovah, I beseech  thee, oh send prosperity!
Blessed be he that cometh in the name of Jehovah. We have  blessed you out of the house of Jehovah.
Jehovah is ùGod, and he hath given us light: bind the  sacrifice with cords, -- up to the horns of the altar.
Thou art my ùGod, and I will give thee thanks; my God, I  will exalt thee.
Give ye thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; for his  loving-kindness \endureth\ for ever.
