ALEPH. Blessed are the perfect in the way, who walk in the  law of Jehovah.
Blessed are they that observe his testimonies, that seek  him with the whole heart;
Who also do no unrighteousness: they walk in his ways.
Thou hast enjoined thy precepts, to be kept diligently.
Oh that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes!
Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all  thy commandments.
I will give thee thanks with uprightness of heart, when I  shall have learned thy righteous judgments.
I will keep thy statutes: forsake me not utterly.
BETH. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his path? by  taking heed according to thy word.
With my whole heart have I sought thee: let me not wander  from thy commandments.
Thy ùword have I hid in my heart, that I might not sin  against thee.
Blessed art thou, Jehovah! teach me thy statutes.
With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy  mouth.
I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as \much  as\ in all wealth.
I will meditate upon thy precepts, and have respect unto  thy paths.
I delight myself in thy statutes; I will not forget thy  word.
GIMEL. Deal bountifully with thy servant \and\ I shall  live; and I will keep thy word.
Open mine eyes, and I shall behold wondrous things out of  thy law.
I am a stranger in the land; hide not thy commandments  from me.
My soul breaketh for longing after thy judgments at all  times.
Thou hast rebuked the proud \that are\ cursed, who wander  from thy commandments.
Roll off from me reproach and contempt; for I observe thy  testimonies.
Princes also did sit \and\ talk together against me: thy  servant doth meditate in thy statutes.
Thy testimonies also are my delight \and\ my counsellors.
DALETH. My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken me  according to thy word.
I have declared my ways, and thou hast answered me: teach  me thy statutes.
Make me to understand the way of thy precepts, and I will  meditate upon thy wondrous works.
My soul melteth for sadness: strengthen me according to  thy word.
Remove from me the way of falsehood, and graciously grant  me thy law.
I have chosen the way of faithfulness; thy judgments have  I set \before me\.
I cleave unto thy testimonies; Jehovah, let me not be  ashamed.
I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shalt  enlarge my heart.
HE. Teach me, O Jehovah, the way of thy statutes, and I  will observe it \unto\ the end.
Give me understanding, and I will observe thy law; and I  will keep it with \my\ whole heart.
Make me to walk in the path of thy commandments; for  therein do I delight.
Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to gain.
Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity; quicken me in  thy way.
Establish thy ùword unto thy servant, who is \devoted\ to  thy fear.
Turn away my reproach which I fear; for thy judgments are  good.
Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in  thy righteousness.
VAU. And let thy loving-kindness come unto me, O Jehovah,  -- thy salvation according to thy ùword.
So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth  me; for I confide in thy word.
And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth;  because I have hoped in thy judgments.
Then will I keep thy law continually, for ever and ever;
And I will walk at liberty, for I have sought thy  precepts;
And I will speak of thy testimonies before kings, and  will not be ashamed;
And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I  have loved;
And I will lift up my hands unto thy commandments, which  I have loved, and I will meditate in thy statutes.
ZAIN. Remember the word for thy servant, upon which thou  hast caused me to hope.
This is my comfort in mine affliction; for thy ùword hath  quickened me.
The proud have derided me beyond measure: I have not  declined from thy law.
I remembered thy judgments of old, O Jehovah, and have  comforted myself.
Burning indignation hath taken hold upon me because of  the wicked who forsake thy law.
Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my  pilgrimage.
I have remembered thy name, O Jehovah, in the night, and  have kept thy law.
This I have had, because I have observed thy precepts.
CHETH. My portion, O Jehovah, I have said, is to keep thy  words.
I have sought thy favour with \my\ whole heart: be  gracious unto me according to thy ùword.
I have thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy  testimonies.
I have made haste, and not delayed, to keep thy  commandments.
The bands of the wicked have wrapped me round: I have not  forgotten thy law.
At midnight I rise up to give thanks unto thee, because  of thy righteous judgments.
I am the companion of all that fear thee, and of them  that keep thy precepts.
The earth, O Jehovah, is full of thy loving-kindness:  teach me thy statutes.
TETH. Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O Jehovah,  according to thy word.
Teach me good discernment and knowledge; for I have  believed in thy commandments.
Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep thy  ùword.
Thou art good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes.
The proud have forged falsehood against me: I will  observe thy precepts with \my\ whole heart.
Their heart is as fat as grease: as for me, I delight in  thy law.
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I  might learn thy statutes.
The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of  gold and silver.
YOD. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me  understanding, and I will learn thy commandments.
They that fear thee will see me, and rejoice; because I  have hoped in thy word.
I know, Jehovah, that thy Judgments are righteousness,  and that in faithfulness thou hast afflicted me.
Oh let thy loving-kindness be for my comfort, according  to thy ùword unto thy servant.
Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live; for  thy law is my delight.
Let the proud be ashamed; for they have acted perversely  towards me with falsehood: as for me, I meditate in thy  precepts.
Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that  know thy testimonies.
Let my heart be perfect in thy statutes, that I be not  ashamed.
CAPH. My soul fainteth for thy salvation; I hope in thy  word.
Mine eyes fail for thy ùword, saying, When wilt thou  comfort me?
For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; I do not  forget thy statutes.
How many shall be the days of thy servant? when wilt thou  execute judgment on them that persecute me?
The proud have digged pits for me, which is not according  to thy law.
All thy commandments are faithfulness. They persecute me  wrongfully: help thou me.
They had almost consumed me upon the earth; but as for  me, I forsook not thy precepts.
Quicken me according to thy loving-kindness, and I will  keep the testimony of thy mouth.
LAMED. For ever, O Jehovah, thy word is settled in the  heavens.
Thy faithfulness is from generation to generation: thou  hast established the earth, and it standeth.
By thine ordinances they stand this day; for all things  are thy servants.
Unless thy law had been my delight, I should then have  perished in mine affliction.
I will never forget thy precepts; for by them thou hast  quickened me.
I am thine, save me; for I have sought thy precepts.
The wicked have awaited me to destroy me; \but\ I attend  unto thy testimonies.
I have seen an end of all perfection: thy commandment is  exceeding broad.
MEM. Oh how I love thy law! it is my meditation all the  day.
Thy commandments make me wiser than mine enemies; for  they are ever with me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers; for thy  testimonies are my meditation.
I understand more than the aged, because I have observed  thy precepts.
I have refrained my feet from every evil path, that I  might keep thy word.
I have not departed from thy judgments; for it is thou  that hast taught me.
How sweet are thy ùwords unto my taste! more than honey  to my mouth!
From thy precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate  every false path.
NUN. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto  my path.
I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep  thy righteous judgments.
I am afflicted very much; O Jehovah, quicken me  according to thy word.
Accept, I beseech thee, Jehovah, the voluntary-offerings  of my mouth, and teach me thy judgments.
My life is continually in my hand; but I do not forget  thy law.
The wicked have laid a snare for me; but I have not  wandered from thy precepts.
Thy testimonies have I taken as a heritage for ever; for  they are the rejoicing of my heart.
I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes for  ever, unto the end.
SAMECH. The double-minded have I hated; but thy law do I  love.
Thou art my hiding-place and my shield: I hope in thy  word.
Depart from me, ye evil-doers; and I will observe the  commandments of my God.
Uphold me according to thy ùword, that I may live; and  let me not be ashamed of my hope.
Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe; and I will have  respect unto thy statutes continually.
Thou hast set at nought all them that wander from thy  statutes; for their deceit is falsehood.
Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth \like\  dross; therefore I love thy testimonies.
My flesh shuddereth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of  thy judgments.
AIN. I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to  mine oppressors.
Be surety for thy servant for good; let not the proud  oppress me.
Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the ùword of  thy righteousness.
Deal with thy servant according to thy loving-kindness,  and teach me thy statutes.
I am thy servant; give me understanding that I may know  thy testimonies.
It is time for Jehovah to work: they have made void thy  law.
Therefore I love thy commandments above gold, yea, above  fine gold.
Therefore I regard all \thy\ precepts concerning all  things to be right: I hate every false path.
PE. Thy testimonies are wonderful; therefore doth my  soul observe them.
The entrance of thy words giveth light, giving  understanding unto the simple.
I opened my mouth wide and panted; for I longed for thy  commandments.
Turn unto me, and be gracious unto me, as thou art wont  to do unto those that love thy name.
Establish my steps in thy ùword; and let not any  iniquity have dominion over me.
Deliver me from the oppression of man; and I will keep  thy precepts.
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant, and teach me  thy statutes.
Mine eyes run down with streams of water, because they  keep not thy law.
TZADE. Righteous art thou, Jehovah, and upright are thy  judgments.
Thou hast commanded thy testimonies in righteousness and  exceeding faithfulness.
My zeal destroyeth me, because mine oppressors have  forgotten thy words.
Thy ùword is exceeding pure, and thy servant loveth it.
I am little and despised: thy precepts have I not  forgotten.
Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and  thy law is truth.
Trouble and anguish have taken hold upon me: thy  commandments are my delights.
The righteousness of thy testimonies is for ever: give  me understanding, and I shall live.
KOPH. I have called with \my\ whole heart; answer me, O  Jehovah: I will observe thy statutes.
I call upon thee; save me, and I will keep thy  testimonies.
I anticipate the morning-dawn and I cry: I hope in thy  word.
Mine eyes anticipate the night-watches, that I may  meditate in thy ùword.
Hear my voice according to thy loving-kindness: O  Jehovah, quicken me according to thy judgment.
They have drawn nigh that follow after mischief: they  are far from thy law.
Thou, Jehovah, art near, and all thy commandments are  truth.
From thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast  founded them for ever.
RESH. See mine affliction, and deliver me; for I have  not forgotten thy law.
Plead my cause, and redeem me: quicken me according to  thy ùword.
Salvation is far from the wicked; for they seek not thy  statutes.
Many are thy tender mercies, O Jehovah; quicken me  according to thy judgments.
Many are my persecutors and mine oppressors; I have not  declined from thy testimonies.
I beheld them that deal treacherously, and was grieved;  because they kept not thy ùword.
See how I have loved thy precepts: quicken me, O  Jehovah, according to thy loving-kindness.
The sum of thy word is truth, and every righteous  judgment of thine is for ever.
SHIN. Princes have persecuted me without a cause; but my  heart standeth in awe of thy word.
I have joy in thy ùword, as one that findeth great  spoil.
I hate and abhor falsehood; thy law do I love.
Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy  righteous judgments.
Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing  doth stumble them.
I have hoped for thy salvation, O Jehovah, and have done  thy commandments.
My soul hath kept thy testimonies, and I love them  exceedingly.
I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies; for all my  ways are before thee.
TAU. Let my cry come near before thee, Jehovah: give me  understanding according to thy word.
Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me  according to thy ùword.
My lips shall pour forth praise when thou hast taught me  thy statutes.
My tongue shall speak aloud of thy ùword; for all thy  commandments are righteousness.
Let thy hand be for my help; for I have chosen thy  precepts.
I have longed for thy salvation, O Jehovah, and thy law  is my delight.
Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy  judgments help me.
I have gone astray like a lost sheep: seek thy servant;  for I have not forgotten thy commandments.
