{To the chief Musician. \A Psalm\ of David, the servant of  Jehovah, who spoke to Jehovah the words of this song in the day  that Jehovah had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies and out of the hand of Saul. And he said,} 
I will love  thee, O Jehovah, my strength.
Jehovah is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my  ùGod, my rock, in whom I will trust; my shield, and the horn of  my salvation, my high tower.
I will call upon Jehovah, who is to be praised: so shall I  be saved from mine enemies.
The bands of death encompassed me, and torrents of Belial  made me afraid.
The bands of Sheol surrounded me, the cords of death  encountered me.
In my distress I called upon Jehovah, and I cried out to my  God; he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came  before him, into his ears.
Then the earth shook and quaked, and the foundations of the  mountains trembled and shook, because he was wroth.
There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of  his mouth devoured: coals burned forth from it.
And he bowed the heavens, and came down; and darkness was  under his feet.
And he rode upon a cherub and did fly; yea, he flew fast  upon the wings of the wind.
He made darkness his secret place, his tent round about  him: darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies.
From the brightness before him his thick clouds passed  forth: hail and coals of fire.
And Jehovah thundered in the heavens, and the Most High  uttered his voice: hail and coals of fire.
And he sent his arrows, and scattered \mine enemies\; and  he shot forth lightnings, and discomfited them.
And the beds of the waters were seen, and the foundations  of the world were uncovered at thy rebuke, Jehovah, at the  blast of the breath of thy nostrils.
He reached forth from above, he took me, he drew me out of  great waters:
He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them that  hated me; for they were mightier than I.
They encountered me in the day of my calamity, but Jehovah  was my stay.
And he brought me forth into a large place; he delivered  me, because he delighted in me.
Jehovah hath rewarded me according to my righteousness;  according to the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.
For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, and have not wickedly  departed from my God.
For all his ordinances were before me, and I did not put  away his statutes from me;
And I was upright with him, and kept myself from mine  iniquity.
And Jehovah hath recompensed me according to my  righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his  sight.
With the gracious thou dost shew thyself gracious; with  the upright man thou dost shew thyself upright;
With the pure thou dost shew thyself pure; and with the  perverse thou dost shew thyself contrary.
For it is thou that savest the afflicted people; but the  haughty eyes wilt thou bring down.
For it is thou that makest my lamp to shine: Jehovah my  God enlighteneth my darkness.
For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have  I leaped over a wall.
As for ùGod, his way is perfect; the word of Jehovah is  tried: he is a shield to all that trust in him.
For who is +God save Jehovah? and who is a rock if not our  God?
The ùGod who girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way  perfect,
Who maketh my feet like hinds` \feet\, and setteth me upon  my high places;
Who teacheth my hands to war, and mine arms bend a bow of  brass;
And thou didst give me the shield of thy salvation, and  thy right hand held me up; and thy condescending gentleness  hath made me great.
Thou didst enlarge my steps under me, and mine ankles have  not wavered.
I pursued mine enemies, and overtook them; and I turned  not again till they were consumed.
I crushed them, and they were not able to rise: they fell  under my feet.
And thou girdedst me with strength to battle; thou didst  subdue under me those that rose up against me.
And mine enemies didst thou make to turn their backs unto  me, and those that hated me I destroyed.
They cried, and there was none to save; -- unto Jehovah,  and he answered them not.
And I did beat them small as dust before the wind; I did  cast them out as the mire of the streets.
Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people;  thou hast made me the head of the nations: a people I knew not  doth serve me.
At the hearing of the ear, they obey me: strangers come  cringing unto me.
Strangers have faded away, and they come trembling forth  from their close places.
Jehovah liveth; and blessed be my rock; and exalted be the  God of my salvation,
The ùGod who hath avenged me, and hath subjected the  peoples to me;
Who hath delivered me from mine enemies: yea, thou hast  lifted me up above them that rose up against me; from the man  of violence hast thou delivered me.
Therefore will I give thanks to thee, Jehovah, among the  nations, and will sing psalms to thy name.
\It is he\ who giveth great deliverances to his king, and  sheweth loving-kindness to his anointed, to David, and to his  seed for evermore.
