{To the chief Musician. Upon Aijeleth-Shahar. A Psalm of  David.}
My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? \why art  thou\ far from my salvation, from the words of my groaning?
My God, I cry by day, and thou answerest not; and by night,  and there is no rest for me:
And thou art holy, thou that dwellest amid the praises of  Israel.
Our fathers confided in thee: they confided, and thou didst  deliver them.
They cried unto thee, and were delivered; they confided in  thee, and were not confounded.
But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and the  despised of the people.
All they that see me laugh me to scorn; they shoot out the  lip, they shake the head, \saying:\
Commit it to Jehovah -- let him rescue him; let him deliver  him, because he delighteth in him!
But thou art he that took me out of the womb; thou didst  make me trust, upon my mother`s breasts.
I was cast upon thee from the womb; thou art my ùGod from  my mother`s belly.
Be not far from me, for trouble is near; for there is none  to help.
Many bulls have encompassed me; Bashan`s strong ones have  beset me round.
They gape upon me with their mouth, \as\ a ravening and a  roaring lion.
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of  joint: my heart is become like wax; it is melted in the midst  of my bowels.
My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue  cleaveth to my palate; and thou hast laid me in the dust of  death.
For dogs have encompassed me; an assembly of evil-doers  have surrounded me: they pierced my hands and my feet.
I may count all my bones. They look, they stare upon me;
They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my  vesture.
But thou, Jehovah, be not far \from me\; O my strength,  haste thee to help me.
Deliver my soul from the sword; my only one from the power  of the dog;
Save me from the lion`s mouth. Yea, from the horns of the  buffaloes hast thou answered me.
I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of  the congregation will I praise thee.
Ye that fear Jehovah, praise him; all ye the seed of  Jacob, glorify him; and revere him, all ye the seed of Israel.
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of  the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him: but when  he cried unto him, he heard.
My praise is from thee, in the great congregation; I will  pay my vows before them that fear him.
The meek shall eat and be satisfied; they shall praise  Jehovah that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.
All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn unto  Jehovah, and all the families of the nations shall worship  before thee:
For the kingdom is Jehovah`s, and he ruleth among the  nations.
All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and worship; all  they that go down to the dust shall bow before him, and he that  cannot keep alive his own soul.
A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord  for a generation.
They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto  a people that shall be born, that he hath done \it\.
