{\A Psalm\ of David.} Fret not thyself because of  evil-doers, and be not envious of them that work  unrighteousness;
for they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and fade as  the green herb.
Confide in Jehovah, and do good; dwell in the land, and  feed on faithfulness;
and delight thyself in Jehovah, and he will give thee the  desires of thy heart.
Commit thy way unto Jehovah, and rely upon him: he will  bring \it\ to pass;
and he will bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and  thy judgment as the noonday.
Rest in Jehovah, and wait patiently for him: fret not  thyself because of him that prospereth in his way, because of  the man that bringeth mischievous devices to pass.
Cease from anger, and forsake wrath; fret not thyself: it  \would be\ only to do evil.
For evil-doers shall be cut off; but those that wait on  Jehovah, they shall possess the land.
For yet a little while, and the wicked is not; and thou  considerest his place, but he is not.
But the meek shall possess the land, and shall delight  themselves in the abundance of prosperity.
The wicked plotteth against the righteous, and gnasheth  his teeth against him.
The Lord laugheth at him; for he seeth that his day is  coming.
The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their  bow, to cast down the afflicted and needy, to slay those that  are upright in \the\ way:
their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their  bows shall be broken.
The little that the righteous hath is better than the  abundance of many wicked;
for the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but Jehovah  upholdeth the righteous.
Jehovah knoweth the days of the perfect; and their  inheritance shall be for ever:
they shall not be ashamed in the time of evil, and in the  days of famine they shall be satisfied.
For the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of Jehovah  shall be as the fat of lambs: they shall consume, like smoke  shall they consume away.
The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again; but the  righteous is gracious and giveth:
for those blessed of him shall possess the land, and they  that are cursed of him shall be cut off.
The steps of a man are established by Jehovah, and he  delighteth in his way:
though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for  Jehovah upholdeth his hand.
I have been young, and now am old, and I have not seen the  righteous forsaken, nor his seed seeking bread:
all the day he is gracious and lendeth, and his seed shall  be a blessing.
Depart from evil, and do good, and dwell for evermore;
for Jehovah loveth judgment, and will not forsake his  saints: They are preserved for ever; but the seed of the wicked  shall be cut off.
The righteous shall possess the land, and dwell therein  for ever.
The mouth of the righteous proffereth wisdom, and his  tongue speaketh judgment;
the law of his God is in his heart; his goings shall not  slide.
The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay  him:
Jehovah will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him  when he is judged.
Wait for Jehovah, and keep his way, and he will exalt thee  to possess the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt  see \it\.
I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading like  a green tree in its native soil:
but he passed away, and behold, he was not; and I sought  him, but he was not found.
Mark the perfect, and behold the upright, for the end of  \that\ man is peace;
but the transgressors shall be destroyed together; the  future of the wicked shall be cut off.
But the salvation of the righteous is of Jehovah: he is  their strength in the time of trouble.
And Jehovah will help them and deliver them: he will  deliver them from the wicked, and save them; for they trust in  him.
