{A Psalm. Of Asaph.} ùGod, Elohim-Jehovah, hath spoken, and  called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down  thereof.
Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined  forth.
Our God will come, and will not keep silence: fire shall  devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about  him.
He will call to the heavens from above, and to the earth,  that he may judge his people:
Gather unto me my godly ones, those that have made a  covenant with me by sacrifice!
And the heavens shall declare his righteousness; for God  executeth judgment himself. Selah.
Hear, my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will  testify unto thee: I am God, thy God.
I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices, or thy  burnt-offerings, continually before me;
I will take no bullock out of thy house, \nor\ he-goats out  of thy folds:
For every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle upon a  thousand hills;
I know all the fowl of the mountains, and the roaming  creatures of the field are mine:
If I were hungry, I would not tell thee; for the world is  mine, and the fulness thereof.
Should I eat the flesh of bulls, and drink the blood of  goats?
Offer unto God thanksgiving, and perform thy vows unto the  Most High;
And call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver  thee, and thou shalt glorify me.
But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to  declare my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant  into thy mouth,
Seeing thou hast hated correction and hast cast my words  behind thee?
When thou sawest a thief, thou didst take pleasure in him,  and thy portion was with adulterers;
Thou lettest thy mouth loose to evil, and thy tongue  frameth deceit;
Thou sittest \and\ speakest against thy brother, thou  revilest thine own mother`s son:
These \things\ hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou  thoughtest that I was altogether as thyself: \but\ I will  reprove thee, and set \them\ in order before thine eyes.
Now consider this, ye that forget +God, lest I tear in  pieces, and there be no deliverer.
Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me; and to him that  ordereth \his\ way will I shew the salvation of God.
