{To the chief Musician. On stringed instruments: an  instruction. Of David.} 
Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide  not thyself from my supplication.
Attend unto me, and answer me: I wander about in my plaint,  and I moan aloud,
Because of the voice of the enemy; because of the  oppression of the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and  in anger they persecute me.
My heart is writhing within me, and the terrors of death  are fallen upon me.
Fear and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath  overwhelmed me.
And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! I would fly  away, and be at rest;
Behold, I would flee afar off, I would lodge in the  wilderness; Selah;
I would hasten my escape from the stormy wind, from the  tempest.
Swallow \them\ up, Lord; divide their tongue: for I have  seen violence and strife in the city.
Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof; and  iniquity and mischief are in the midst of it.
Perversities are in the midst thereof; and oppression and  deceit depart not from its streets.
For it is not an enemy that hath reproached me -- then  could I have borne it; neither is it he that hateth me that  hath magnified \himself\ against me -- then would I have hidden  myself from him;
But it was thou, a man mine equal, mine intimate, my  familiar friend. ...
We who held sweet intercourse together. To the house of  God we walked amid the throng.
Let death seize upon them, let them go down alive into  Sheol. For wickedness is in their dwellings, in their midst.
As for me, unto God will I call; and Jehovah will save me.
Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray and moan  aloud; and he will hear my voice.
He hath redeemed my soul in peace from the battle against  me: for there were many about me.
ùGod will hear, and afflict them: he that is seated of  old, (Selah) ... because there is no change in them, and they  fear not God.
He hath put forth his hands against such as are at peace  with him; he hath profaned his covenant.
Smooth were the milky \words\ of his mouth, but his heart  was war; his words were softer than oil, yet are they drawn  swords.
Cast thy burden upon Jehovah, and *he* will sustain thee:  he will never suffer the righteous to be moved.
And thou, O God, wilt bring them down into the pit of  destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half  their days. But as for me, I will confide in thee.
