{To the chief Musician. Of David. A Psalm: a Song.} 
Let God  arise, let his enemies be scattered, and let them that hate him  flee before him.
As smoke is driven, thou wilt drive them away; as wax  melteth before the fire, the wicked shall perish at the  presence of God.
But the righteous shall rejoice: they shall exult before  God and be glad with joy.
Sing unto God, sing forth his name; cast up a way for him  that rideth in the deserts: his name is Jah; and rejoice before  him.
A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is  God in his holy habitation.
God maketh the solitary into families; those that were  bound he bringeth out into prosperity: but the rebellious dwell  in a parched \land\.
O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou  didst march through the wilderness -- (Selah) --
The earth trembled, the heavens also dropped at the  presence of God, yon Sinai, at the presence of God, the God of  Israel.
Thou, O God, didst pour a plentiful rain upon thine  inheritance, and when it was weary thou strengthenedst it.
Thy flock hath dwelt therein: thou hast prepared in thy  goodness, for the afflicted, O God!
The Lord gives the word: great the host of the publishers.
Kings of armies flee; they flee, and she that tarrieth at  home divideth the spoil.
Though ye have lain among the sheepfolds, \ye shall be as\  wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with  green gold.
When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it became  snow-white as Zalmon.
\As\ mount Bashan is the mount of God, a many-peaked  mountain, \as\ mount Bashan.
Why do ye look with envy, ye many-peaked mountains, upon  the mount that God hath desired for his abode? yea, Jehovah  will dwell \there\ for ever.
The chariots of God are twenty thousand, thousands upon  thousands; the Lord is among them: it is a Sinai in holiness.
Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity  captive: thou hast received gifts in Man, and even \for\ the  rebellious, for the dwelling \there\ of Jah Elohim.
Blessed be the Lord: day by day doth he load us \with  good\, the ùGod who is our salvation. Selah.
Our ùGod is the ùGod of salvation; and with Jehovah, the  Lord, are the goings forth \even\ from death.
Verily God will smite the head of his enemies, the hairy  scalp of him that goeth on still in his trespasses.
The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will  bring \them\ again from the depth of the sea;
That thou mayest dip thy foot in blood: the tongue of thy  dogs has its portion from enemies.
They have seen thy goings, O God, the goings of my ùGod,  my King, in the sanctuary.
The singers went before, the players on stringed  instruments after, in the midst of maidens playing on tabrets.
In the congregations bless ye God, the Lord, -- \ye\ from  the fountain of Israel.
There is little Benjamin, their ruler; the princes of  Judah, their company; the princes of Zebulun, the princes of  Naphtali.
Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God,  that which thou hast wrought for us.
Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring  presents unto thee.
Rebuke the beast of the reeds, the assembly of the strong,  with the calves of the peoples: \every one\ submitteth himself  with pieces of silver. Scatter the peoples that delight in war.
Great ones shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall quickly  stretch out her hands unto God.
Ye kingdoms of the earth, sing unto God; sing psalms of  the Lord, (Selah,)
Of him that rideth upon the heavens, the heavens which are  of old: lo, he uttereth his voice, a mighty voice.
Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency is over  Israel, and his strength is in the clouds.
Terrible art thou, O God, out of thy sanctuaries, -- the  ùGod of Israel! He it is that giveth strength and might unto  the people. Blessed be God!
