{To the chief Musician. Upon Shoshannim. \A Psalm\ of  David.} 
Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto \my\  soul.
I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing; I am come  into the depths of waters, and the flood overfloweth me.
I am weary with my crying, my throat is parched; mine eyes  fail while I wait for my God.
They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs  of my head; they that would destroy me, being mine enemies  wrongfully, are mighty: then I restored that which I took not  away.
Thou, O God, knowest my foolishness, and my trespasses are  not hidden from thee.
Let not them that wait on thee, Lord, Jehovah of hosts, be  ashamed through me; let not those that seek thee be confounded  through me, O God of Israel.
Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; confusion hath  covered my face.
I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto  my mother`s sons;
For the zeal of thy house hath devoured me, and the  reproaches of them that reproach thee have fallen upon me.
And I wept, my soul was fasting: that also was to my  reproach; --
And I made sackcloth my garment: then I became a proverb  to them.
They that sit in the gate talk of me, and \I am\ the song  of the drunkards.
But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, Jehovah, in an  acceptable time: O God, in the abundance of thy loving-kindness  answer me, according to the truth of thy salvation:
Deliver me out of the mire, let me not sink; let me be  delivered from them that hate me, and out of the depths of  waters.
Let not the flood of waters overflow me, neither let the  deep swallow me up; and let not the pit shut its mouth upon me.
Answer me, O Jehovah; for thy loving-kindness is good:  according to the abundance of thy tender mercies, turn toward  me;
And hide not thy face from thy servant, for I am in  trouble: answer me speedily.
Draw nigh unto my soul, be its redeemer; ransom me because  of mine enemies.
*Thou* knowest my reproach, and my shame, and my  dishonour: mine adversaries are all before thee.
Reproach hath broken my heart, and I am overwhelmed: and I  looked for sympathy, but there was none; and for comforters,  but I found none.
Yea, they gave me gall for my food, and in my thirst they  gave me vinegar to drink.
Let their table become a snare before them, and their very  welfare a trap;
Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not, and make  their loins continually to shake.
Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let the  fierceness of thine anger take hold of them.
Let their habitation be desolate; let there be no dweller  in their tents.
For they persecute him whom *thou* hast smitten, and they  talk for the sorrow of those whom thou hast wounded.
Add iniquity unto their iniquity, and let them not come  into thy righteousness.
Let them be blotted out of the book of life, and not be  written with the righteous.
But I am afflicted and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O  God, set me secure on high.
I will praise the name of God with a song, and will  magnify him with thanksgiving;
And it shall please Jehovah more than an ox, -- a bullock  with horns and cloven hoofs.
The meek shall see it, they shall be glad; ye that seek  God, your heart shall live.
For Jehovah heareth the needy, and despiseth not his  prisoners.
Let heavens and earth praise him; the seas, and everything  that moveth therein.
For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of  Judah; and they shall dwell there, and possess it:
And the seed of his servants shall inherit it, and they  that love his name shall dwell therein.
