In thee, Jehovah, do I trust: let me never be ashamed.
Deliver me in thy righteousness, and rescue me; incline  thine ear unto me, and save me.
Be to me a rock of habitation, whereunto I may continually  resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my  rock and my fortress.
My God, rescue me out of the hand of the wicked, out of the  hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
For thou art my hope, O Lord Jehovah, my confidence from my  youth.
On thee have I been stayed from the womb; from the bowels  of my mother thou didst draw me forth: my praise shall be  continually of thee.
I have been as a wonder unto many; but thou art my strong  refuge.
My mouth shall be filled with thy praise, with thy glory,  all the day.
Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when  my strength faileth.
For mine enemies speak against me, and they that watch for  my soul consult together,
Saying, God hath forsaken him; pursue and seize him, for  there is none to deliver.
O God, be not far from me; my God, hasten to my help.
Let them be ashamed, let them be consumed, that are  adversaries to my soul; let them be covered with reproach and  dishonour that seek my hurt.
But as for me, I will hope continually, and will praise  thee yet more and more.
My mouth shall declare thy righteousness, \and\ thy  salvation all the day: for I know not the numbers \thereof\.
I will go in the might of the Lord Jehovah; I will recall  thy righteousness, thine alone.
O God, thou hast taught me from my youth, and hitherto  have I proclaimed thy marvellous works:
Now also, when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsake me  not, until I have proclaimed thine arm unto \this\ generation,  thy might to every one that is to come.
And thy righteousness, O God, reacheth on high, thou who  hast done great things: O God, who is like unto thee?
Thou, who hast shewn us many and sore troubles, wilt  revive us again, and wilt bring us up again from the depths of  the earth;
Thou wilt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every  side.
I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even thy truth,  my God; unto thee will I sing psalms with the harp, thou holy  One of Israel.
My lips shall exult when I sing psalms unto thee; and my  soul, which thou hast redeemed.
My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the  day; for they shall be ashamed, for they shall be brought to  confusion, that seek my hurt.
