{For Solomon.} O God, give the king thy judgments, and thy  righteousness unto the king`s son.
He will judge thy people with righteousness, and thine  afflicted with judgment.
The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the  hills, by righteousness.
He will do justice to the afflicted of the people; he will  save the children of the needy, and will break in pieces the  oppressor.
They shall fear thee as long as sun and moon endure, from  generation to generation.
He shall come down like rain on the mown grass, as showers  that water the earth.
In his days shall the righteous flourish, and abundance of  peace till the moon be no more.
And he shall have dominion from sea to sea, and from the  river unto the ends of the earth.
The dwellers in the desert shall bow before him, and his  enemies shall lick the dust.
The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall render  presents; the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer tribute:
Yea, all kings shall bow down before him; all nations  shall serve him.
For he will deliver the needy who crieth, and the  afflicted, who hath no helper;
He will have compassion on the poor and needy, and will  save the souls of the needy:
He will redeem their souls from oppression and violence,  and precious shall their blood be in his sight.
And he shall live; and to him shall be given of the gold  of Sheba; and prayer shall be made for him continually: all the  day shall he be blessed.
There shall be abundance of corn in the earth, upon the  top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like  Lebanon; and they of the city shall bloom like the herb of the  earth.
His name shall endure for ever; his name shall be  continued as long as the sun: and \men\ shall bless themselves  in him; all nations shall call him blessed.
Blessed be Jehovah Elohim, the God of Israel, who alone  doeth wondrous things!
And blessed be his glorious name for ever! and let the  whole earth be filled with his glory! Amen, and Amen.
The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.
