{A Psalm of Asaph.} Truly God is good to Israel, to such as  are of a pure heart.
But as for me, my feet were almost gone, my steps had well  nigh slipped;
For I was envious at the arrogant, seeing the prosperity of  the wicked.
For they have no pangs in their death, and their body is  well nourished;
They have not the hardships of mankind, neither are they  plagued like \other\ men:
Therefore pride encompasseth them as a neck-chain, violence  covereth them \as\ a garment;
Their eyes stand out from fatness, they exceed the  imaginations of their heart:
They mock and speak wickedly of oppression, they speak  loftily:
They set their mouth in the heavens, and their tongue  walketh through the earth.
Therefore his people turn hither, and waters in fulness  are wrung out to them.
And they say, How can ùGod know, and is there knowledge in  the Most High?
Behold, these are the wicked, and they prosper in the  world: they heap up riches.
Truly have I purified my heart in vain, and washed my  hands in innocency:
For all the day have I been plagued, and chastened every  morning.
If I said, I will speak thus, behold, I should be  faithless to the generation of thy children.
When I thought to be able to know this, it was a grievous  task in mine eyes;
Until I went into the sanctuaries of ùGod; \then\  understood I their end.
Truly thou settest them in slippery places, thou castest  them down in ruins.
How are they suddenly made desolate! they pass away,  consumed with terrors.
As a dream, when one awaketh, wilt thou, Lord, on arising  despise their image.
When my heart was in a ferment, and I was pricked in my  reins,
Then I was brutish and knew nothing; I was \as\ a beast  with thee.
Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast holden  my right hand;
Thou wilt guide me by thy counsel, and after the glory,  thou wilt receive me.
Whom have I in the heavens? and there is none upon earth I  desire beside thee.
My flesh and my heart faileth: God is the rock of my heart  and my portion for ever.
For behold, they that are far from thee shall perish; thou  destroyest every one that goeth a whoring from thee.
But as for me, it is good for me to draw near to God: I  have put my trust in the Lord Jehovah, that I may declare all  thy works.
