{An instruction. Of Asaph.} Give ear, O my people, to my  law; incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter riddles  from of old,
Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told  us:
We will not hide \them\ from their sons, shewing forth to  the generation to come the praises of Jehovah, and his  strength, and his marvellous works which he hath done.
For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a  law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should  make them known to their children;
That the generation to come might know \them\, the children  that should be born; that they might rise up and tell \them\ to  their children,
And that they might set their hope in God, and not forget  the works of ùGod, but observe his commandments;
And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and  rebellious generation, a generation that prepared not their  heart, and whose spirit was not stedfast with ùGod.
The sons of Ephraim, armed bowmen, turned back in the day  of battle.
They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in  his law;
And forgot his doings, and his marvellous works which he  had shewn them.
In the sight of their fathers had he done wonders, in the  land of Egypt, the field of Zoan.
He clave the sea, and caused them to pass through; and  made the waters to stand as a heap;
And he led them with a cloud in the daytime, and all the  night with the light of fire.
He clave rocks in the wilderness, and gave \them\ drink as  out of the depths, abundantly;
And he brought streams out of the rock, and caused waters  to run down like rivers.
Yet they still went on sinning against him, provoking the  Most High in the desert;
And they tempted ùGod in their heart, by asking meat for  their lust;
And they spoke against God: they said, Is ùGod able to  prepare a table in the wilderness?
Behold, he smote the rock, and waters gushed out, and  streams overflowed; is he able to give bread also, or provide  flesh for his people?
Therefore Jehovah heard, and was wroth; and fire was  kindled against Jacob, and anger also went up against Israel:
Because they believed not in God, and confided not in his  salvation;
Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and had  opened the doors of the heavens,
And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given  them the corn of the heavens.
Man did eat the bread of the mighty; he sent them  provision to the full.
He caused the east wind to rise in the heavens, and by his  strength he brought the south wind;
And he rained flesh upon them as dust, and feathered fowl  as the sand of the seas,
And he let it fall in the midst of their camp, round about  their habitations:
And they did eat, and were well filled; for that they  lusted after, he brought to them.
They were not alienated from their lust, their meat was  yet in their mouths,
When the anger of God went up against them; and he slew  the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen men of Israel.
For all this, they sinned still, and believed not in his  marvellous works;
And he consumed their days in vanity, and their years in  terror.
When he slew them, then they sought him, and returned and  sought early after ùGod;
And they remembered that God was their rock, and ùGod, the  Most High, their redeemer.
But they flattered him with their mouth, and lied unto him  with their tongue;
For their heart was not firm toward him, neither were they  stedfast in his covenant.
But he was merciful: he forgave the iniquity, and  destroyed \them\ not; but many a time turned he his anger away,  and did not stir up all his fury:
And he remembered that they were flesh, a breath that  passeth away and cometh not again.
How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve  him in the desert!
And they turned again and tempted ùGod, and grieved the  Holy One of Israel.
They remembered not his hand, the day when he delivered  them from the oppressor,
How he set his signs in Egypt, and his miracles in the  field of Zoan;
And turned their rivers into blood, and their streams,  that they could not drink;
He sent dog-flies among them, which devoured them, and  frogs, which destroyed them;
And he gave their increase unto the caterpillar, and their  labour unto the locust;
He killed their vines with hail, and their sycamore trees  with hail-stones;
And he delivered up their cattle to the hail, and their  flocks to thunderbolts.
He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and  indignation, and distress, -- a mission of angels of woes.
He made a way for his anger; he spared not their soul from  death, but gave their life over to the pestilence;
And he smote all the firstborn in Egypt, the first-fruits  of their vigour in the tents of Ham.
And he made his own people to go forth like sheep, and  guided them in the wilderness like a flock;
And he led them safely, so that they were without fear;  and the sea covered their enemies.
And he brought them to his holy border, this mountain,  which his right hand purchased;
And he drove out the nations before them, and allotted  them for an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel  to dwell in their tents.
But they tempted and provoked God, the Most High, and kept  not his testimonies,
And they drew back and dealt treacherously like their  fathers: they turned like a deceitful bow.
And they provoked him to anger with their high places, and  moved him to jealousy with their graven images.
God heard, and was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel:
And he forsook the tabernacle at Shiloh, the tent where he  had dwelt among men,
And gave his strength into captivity, and his glory into  the hand of the oppressor;
And delivered up his people unto the sword, and was very  wroth with his inheritance:
The fire consumed their young men, and their maidens were  not praised in \nuptial\ song;
Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows made no  lamentation.
Then the Lord awoke as one out of sleep, like a mighty man  that shouteth aloud by reason of wine;
And he smote his adversaries in the hinder part, and put  them to everlasting reproach.
And he rejected the tent of Joseph, and chose not the  tribe of Ephraim,
But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he  loved;
And he built his sanctuary like the heights, like the  earth which he hath founded for ever.
And he chose David his servant, and took him from the  sheepfolds:
From following the suckling-ewes, he brought him to feed  Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.
And he fed them according to the integrity of his heart,  and led them by the skilfulness of his hands.
