{An instruction. Of Ethan the Ezrahite.} 
I will sing of the  loving-kindness of Jehovah for ever; with my mouth will I make  known thy faithfulness from generation to generation.
For I said, Loving-kindness shall be built up for ever; in  the very heavens wilt thou establish thy faithfulness.
I have made a covenant with mine elect, I have sworn unto  David my servant:
Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne  from generation to generation. Selah.
And the heavens shall celebrate thy wonders, O Jehovah, and  thy faithfulness in the congregation of the saints.
For who in the heaven can be compared to Jehovah? \who\  among the sons of the mighty shall be likened to Jehovah?
ùGod is greatly to be feared in the council of the saints,  and terrible for all that are round about him.
Jehovah, God of hosts, who is like unto thee, the strong  Jah? And thy faithfulness is round about thee.
*Thou* rulest the pride of the sea: when its waves arise,  *thou* stillest them.
Thou hast crushed Rahab as one that is slain; thou hast  scattered thine enemies with the arm of thy strength.
Thine are the heavens, the earth also is thine; the world  and its fulness, *thou* hast founded them.
The north and the south, *thou* hast created them: Tabor  and Hermon triumph in thy name.
Thine is the arm of might: strong is thy hand, high is thy  right hand.
Righteousness and judgment are the foundation of thy  throne; loving-kindness and truth go before thy face.
Blessed is the people that know the shout of joy: they  walk, O Jehovah, in the light of thy countenance.
In thy name are they joyful all the day, and in thy  righteousness are they exalted.
For thou art the glory of their strength; and in thy  favour our horn shall be exalted.
For Jehovah is our shield, and the Holy One of Israel, our  king.
Then thou spakest in vision of thy Holy One, and saidst, I  have laid help upon a mighty one; I have exalted one chosen out  of the people.
I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I  anointed him:
With whom my hand shall be established; and mine arm shall  strengthen him.
No enemy shall exact upon him, nor the son of wickedness  afflict him;
But I will beat down his adversaries before his face, and  will smite them that hate him.
And my faithfulness and my loving-kindness shall be with  him, and by my name shall his horn be exalted.
And I will set his hand in the sea, and his right hand in  the rivers.
*He* shall call unto me, Thou art my father, my ùGod, and  the rock of my salvation;
And as to me, I will make him firstborn, the highest of  the kings of the earth.
My loving-kindness will I keep for him for evermore, and  my covenant shall stand fast with him;
And I will establish his seed for ever, and his throne as  the days of heaven.
If his sons forsake my law, and walk not in mine  ordinances;
If they profane my statutes, and keep not my commandments:
Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and  their iniquity with stripes.
Nevertheless my loving-kindness will I not utterly take  from him, nor belie my faithfulness;
My covenant will I not profane, nor alter the thing that  is gone out of my lips.
Once have I sworn by my holiness; I will not lie unto  David:
His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun  before me;
It shall be established for ever as the moon, and the  witness in the sky is firm. Selah.
But thou hast rejected and cast off; thou hast been very  wroth with thine anointed:
Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant; thou hast  profaned his crown to the ground:
Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought  his strongholds to ruin.
All that pass by the way plunder him; he is become a  reproach to his neighbours.
Thou hast exalted the right hand of his oppressors; thou  hast made all his enemies to rejoice:
Yea, thou hast turned back the edge of his sword, and hast  not made him stand in the battle.
Thou hast made his brightness to cease, and cast his  throne down to the ground;
The days of his youth hast thou shortened; thou hast  covered him with shame. Selah.
How long, Jehovah, wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall  thy fury burn like fire?
Remember, as regards me, what life is. Wherefore hast thou  created all the children of men to be vanity?
What man liveth, and shall not see death? Shall he deliver  his soul from the power of Sheol? Selah.
Where, Lord, are thy former loving-kindnesses, \which\  thou swarest unto David in thy faithfulness?
Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants -- that I  bear in my bosom \that of\ all the mighty peoples --
Wherewith thine enemies, O Jehovah, have reproached,  wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed.
Blessed be Jehovah for evermore! Amen, and Amen.
