Collect yourselves and gather together, O nation without  shame,
before the decree bring forth, \before\ the day pass away as  chaff, before the fierce anger of Jehovah come upon you, before  the day of Jehovah`s anger come upon you.
Seek Jehovah, all ye meek of the land, who have performed  his ordinance; seek righteousness, seek meekness: it may be ye  shall be hid in the day of Jehovah`s anger.
For Gazah shall be forsaken, and Ashkelon shall be a  desolation; they shall drive out Ashdod at noonday, and Ekron  shall be rooted up.
Woe unto the inhabitants of the sea-coast, the nation of the  Cherethites! The word of Jehovah is against you, O Canaan, land  of the Philistines: I will destroy thee, that there shall be no  inhabitant;
and the sea-coast shall be cave-dwellings for shepherds, and  folds for flocks.
And the coast shall be for the remnant of the house of  Judah; they shall feed thereon: in the houses of Ashkelon shall  they lie down in the evening: for Jehovah their God shall visit  them, and turn again their captivity.
I have heard the reproach of Moab, and the revilings of the  children of Ammon, wherewith they have reproached my people,  and magnified themselves against their border.
Therefore, \as\ I live, saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of  Israel, Moab shall certainly be as Sodom, and the children of  Ammon as Gomorrah, a possession of nettles, and salt-pits, and  a perpetual desolation; the remnant of my people shall spoil  them, and the residue of my nation shall possess them.
This shall they have for their pride, because they have  reproached and magnified themselves against the people of  Jehovah of hosts.
Jehovah will be terrible unto them; for he will famish all  the gods of the earth; and all the isles of the nations shall  worship him, every one from his place.
Ye Ethiopians also, ye shall be the slain of my sword.
And he will stretch out his hand against the north, and  destroy Assyria; and will make Nineveh a desolation, a place of  drought like the wilderness.
And flocks shall lie down in the midst of her, all the  crowd of beasts; both the pelican and the bittern shall lodge  in the chapiters thereof; a voice shall sing in the windows;  desolation shall be on the thresholds: for he hath laid bare  the cedar work.
This is the rejoicing city that dwelt in security, that  said in her heart, I am, and there is none else beside me: how  is she become a desolation, a couching-place for beasts! Every  one that passeth by her shall hiss, shall wave his hand.
