Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took each of them his censer, and put fire therein, and laid incense thereon, and offered strange fire before Yahweh, which he had not commanded them.
There came forth fire from before Yahweh, and devoured them, and they died before Yahweh.
Then Moses said to Aaron, This is it what Yahweh spoke, saying, I will be sanctified in those who come near me, and before all the people I will be glorified. Aaron held his peace.
Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Draw near, carry your brothers from before the sanctuary out of the camp.
So they drew near, and carried them in their coats out of the camp, as Moses had said.
Moses said to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons, Don't let the hair of your heads go loose, neither tear your clothes; that you don't die, and that he not be angry with all the congregation: but let your brothers, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which Yahweh has kindled.
You shall not go out from the door of the tent of meeting, lest you die; for the anointing oil of Yahweh is on you. They did according to the word of Moses.
Yahweh spoke to Aaron, saying,
Drink no wine nor strong drink, you, nor your sons with you, when you go into the tent of meeting, that you don't die: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations:
and that you may make a distinction between the holy and the common, and between the unclean and the clean;
and that you may teach the children of Israel all the statutes which Yahweh has spoken to them by Moses.
Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons who were left, Take the meal-offering that remains of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire, and eat it without yeast beside the altar; for it is most holy;
and you shall eat it in a holy place, because it is your portion, and your sons' portion, of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire: for so I am commanded.
The wave-breast and the heave-thigh shall you eat in a clean place, you, and your sons, and your daughters with you: for they are given as your portion, and your sons' portion, out of the sacrifices of the peace-offerings of the children of Israel.
The heave-thigh and the wave-breast shall they bring with the offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for a wave-offering before Yahweh: and it shall be your, and your sons' with you, as a portion forever; as Yahweh has commanded.
Moses diligently sought the goat of the sin-offering, and, behold, it was burnt: and he was angry with Eleazar and with Ithamar, the sons of Aaron who were left, saying,
Why haven't you eaten the sin-offering in the place of the sanctuary, seeing it is most holy, and he has given it you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before Yahweh?
Behold, the blood of it was not brought into the sanctuary within: you should certainly have eaten it in the sanctuary, as I commanded.
Aaron spoke to Moses, Behold, this day have they offered their sin- offering and their burnt offering before Yahweh; and there have befallen me such things as these: and if I had eaten the sin-offering today, would it have been well-pleasing in the sight of Yahweh?
When Moses heard \that\, it was well-pleasing in his sight.
