Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, When any man has an issue out of his flesh, because of his issue he is unclean.
This shall be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh run with his issue, or his flesh be stopped from his issue, it is his uncleanness.
Every bed whereon he who has the issue lies shall be unclean; and everything whereon he sits shall be unclean.
Whoever touches his bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
He who sits on anything whereon he who has the issue sat shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
He who touches the flesh of him who has the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
If he who has the issue spit on him who is clean, then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
Whatever saddle he who has the issue rides on shall be unclean.
Whoever touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until the even: and he who bears those things shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
Whoever he who has the issue touches, without having rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
The earthen vessel, which he who has the issue touches, shall be broken; and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.
When he who has an issue is cleansed of his issue, then he shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes; and he shall bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean.
On the eighth day he shall take to him two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and come before Yahweh to the door of the tent of meeting, and give them to the priest:
and the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make atonement for him before Yahweh for his issue.
If any man's seed of copulation go out from him, then he shall bathe all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the even.
Every garment, and every skin, whereon is the seed of copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the even.
The woman also with whom a man shall lie with seed of copulation, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the even.
If a woman have an issue, \and\ her issue in her flesh be blood, she shall be in her impurity seven days: and whoever touches her shall be unclean until the even.
Everything that she lies on in her impurity shall be unclean: everything also that she sits on shall be unclean.
Whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
Whoever touches anything that she sits on shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
If it be on the bed, or on anything whereon she sits, when he touches it, he shall be unclean until the even.
If any man lie with her, and her impurity be on him, he shall be unclean seven days; and every bed whereon he lies shall be unclean.
If a woman have an issue of her blood many days not in the time of her impurity, or if she have an issue beyond the time of her impurity; all the days of the issue of her uncleanness she shall be as in the days of her impurity: she is unclean.
Every bed whereon she lies all the days of her issue shall be to her as the bed of her impurity: and everything whereon she sits shall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her impurity.
Whoever touches those things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
But if she be cleansed of her issue, then she shall number to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
On the eighth day she shall take to her two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest, to the door of the tent of meeting.
The priest shall offer the one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make atonement for her before Yahweh for the issue of her uncleanness.
Thus shall you separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness, that they not die in their uncleanness, when they defile my tent that is in the midst of them.
This is the law of him who has an issue, and of him whose seed of copulation goes from him, so that he is unclean thereby;
and of her who is sick with her impurity, and of him who has an issue, of the man, and of the woman, and of him who lies with her who is unclean.
