Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and tell them: This is the thing which Yahweh has commanded, saying,
Whatever man there be of the house of Israel, who kills an ox, or lamb, or goat, in the camp, or who kills it outside of the camp,
and hasn't brought it to the door of the tent of meeting, to offer it as an offering to Yahweh before the tent of Yahweh: blood shall be imputed to that man; he has shed blood; and that man shall be cut off from among his people:
To the end that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they sacrifice in the open field, even that they may bring them to Yahweh, to the door of the tent of meeting, to the priest, and sacrifice them for sacrifices of peace-offerings to Yahweh.
The priest shall sprinkle the blood on the altar of Yahweh at the door of the tent of meeting, and burn the fat for a sweet savor to Yahweh.
They shall no more sacrifice their sacrifices to the male goats, after which they play the prostitute. This shall be a statute forever to them throughout their generations.
You shall tell them, Whatever man there be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn among them, who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice,
and doesn't bring it to the door of the tent of meeting, to sacrifice it to Yahweh; that man shall be cut off from his people.
Whatever man there be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn among them, who eats any manner of blood, I will set my face against that soul who eats blood, and will cut him off from among his people.
For the life of the flesh is in the blood; and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls: for it is the blood that makes atonement by reason of the life.
Therefore I said to the children of Israel, No soul of you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who sojourns among you eat blood.
Whatever man there be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn among them, who takes in hunting any animal or bird that may be eaten; he shall pour out the blood of it, and cover it with dust.
For as to the life of all flesh, the blood of it is \all one\ with the life of it: therefore I said to the children of Israel, You shall eat the blood of no manner of flesh; for the life of all flesh is the blood of it: whoever eats it shall be cut off.
Every soul who eats that which dies of itself, or that which is torn of animals, whether he be home-born or a sojourner, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even: then shall he be clean.
But if he doesn't wash them, nor bathe his flesh, then he shall bear his iniquity.
