Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and tell them, You shall be holy; for I Yahweh your God am holy.
You shall fear every man his mother, and his father; and you shall keep my Sabbaths: I am Yahweh your God.
Don't turn to idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am Yahweh your God.
When you offer a sacrifice of peace-offerings to Yahweh, you shall offer it that you may be accepted.
It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, and on the next day: and if anything remain until the third day, it shall be burnt with fire.
If it be eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination; it shall not be accepted:
but everyone who eats it shall bear his iniquity, because he has profaned the holy thing of Yahweh: and that soul shall be cut off from his people.
When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, neither shall you gather the gleaning of your harvest.
You shall not glean your vineyard, neither shall you gather the fallen fruit of your vineyard; you shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am Yahweh your God.
You shall not steal; neither shall you deal falsely, nor lie one to another.
You shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of your God: I am Yahweh.
You shall not oppress your neighbor, nor rob him: the wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning.
You shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind; but you shall fear your God: I am Yahweh.
You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment: you shall not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty; but in righteousness shall you judge your neighbor.
You shall not go up and down as a talebearer among your people: neither shall you stand against the blood of your neighbor: I am Yahweh.
You shall not hate your brother in your heart: you shall surely rebuke your neighbor, and not bear sin because of him.
You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people; but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am Yahweh.
You shall keep my statutes. You shall not let your cattle breed with a diverse kind: you shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed: neither shall there come on you a garment of two kinds of stuff mingled together.
Whoever lies carnally with a woman, who is a bondmaid, pledged to be married to a husband, and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given her; they shall be punished; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free.
He shall bring his trespass-offering to Yahweh, to the door of the tent of meeting, even a ram for a trespass-offering.
The priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass-offering before Yahweh for his sin which he has sinned: and the sin which he has sinned shall be forgiven him.
When you shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then you shall count the fruit of it as their uncircumcision: three years shall they be as uncircumcised to you; it shall not be eaten.
But in the fourth year all the fruit of it shall be holy, for giving praise to Yahweh.
In the fifth year shall you eat of the fruit of it, that it may yield to you the increase of it: I am Yahweh your God.
You shall not eat anything with the blood: neither shall you use enchantments, nor practice sorcery.
You shall not cut the hair on the sides of your heads, neither shall you clip off the edge of your beard.
You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks on you: I am Yahweh.
Don't profane your daughter, to make her a prostitute; lest the land fall to prostitution, and the land become full of wickedness.
You shall keep my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am Yahweh.
Don't turn to those who have familiar spirits, nor to the wizards; don't seek them out, to be defiled by them: I am Yahweh your God.
You shall rise up before the gray head, and honor the face of the old man, and you shall fear your God: I am Yahweh.
If a stranger sojourn with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong.
The stranger who sojourns with you shall be to you as the home-born among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt: I am Yahweh your God.
You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity.
Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall you have: I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
You shall observe all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them: I am Yahweh.
