Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Moreover, you shall tell the children of Israel, Whoever he be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel, who gives of his seed to Molech; he shall surely be put to death: the people of the land shall stone him with stones.
I also will set my face against that man, and will cut him off from among his people; because he has given of his seed to Molech, to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my holy name.
If the people at the land do at all hide their eyes from that man, when he gives of his seed to Molech, and don't put him to death;
then I will set my face against that man, and against his family, and will cut him off, and all who play the prostitute after him, to play the prostitute with Molech, from among their people.
The soul that turns to those who have familiar spirits, and to the wizards, to play the prostitute after them, I will even set my face against that soul, and will cut him off from among his people.
Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be you holy; for I am Yahweh your God.
You shall keep my statutes, and do them: I am Yahweh who sanctifies you.
For everyone who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death: he has cursed his father or his mother; his blood shall be on him.
The man who commits adultery with another man's wife, even he who commits adultery with his neighbor's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
The man who lies with his father's wife has uncovered his father's nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be on them.
If a man lie with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death: they have created confusion; their blood shall be on them.
If a man lie with mankind, as with womankind, both of them have committed abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be on them.
If a man take a wife and her mother, it is wickedness: they shall be burnt with fire, both he and they; that there be no wickedness among you.
If a man lie with a animal, he shall surely be put to death: and you shall kill the animal.
If a woman approach to any animal, and lie down thereto, you shall kill the woman, and the animal: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be on them.
If a man shall take his sister, his father's daughter, or his mother's daughter, and see her nakedness, and she see his nakedness; it is a shameful thing; and they shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people: he has uncovered his sister's nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.
If a man shall lie with a woman having her sickness, and shall uncover her nakedness; he has made naked her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood: and both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, nor of your father's sister; for he has made naked his close relative: they shall bear their iniquity.
If a man shall lie with his uncle's wife, he has uncovered his uncle's nakedness: they shall bear their sin; they shall die childless.
If a man shall take his brother's wife, it is impurity: he has uncovered his brother's nakedness; they shall be childless.
You shall therefore keep all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them; that the land, where I bring you to dwell therein, not vomit you out.
You shall not walk in the customs of the nation, which I cast out before you: for they did all these things, and therefore I abhorred them.
But I have said to you, You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey: I am Yahweh your God, who has separated you from the peoples.
You shall therefore make a distinction between the clean animal and the unclean, and between the unclean fowl and the clean: and you shall not make your souls abominable by animal, or by bird, or by anything with which the ground teems, which I have separated from you as unclean.
You shall be holy to me: for I, Yahweh, am holy, and have set you apart from the peoples, that you should be mine.
A man also or a woman that has a familiar spirit, or that is a wizard, shall surely be put to death: they shall stone them with stones; their blood shall be on them.
