Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, that they separate themselves from the holy things of the children of Israel, which they make holy to me, and that they not profane my holy name: I am Yahweh.
Tell them, Whoever he be of all your seed throughout your generations, that approaches to the holy things, which the children of Israel make holy to Yahweh, having his uncleanness on him, that soul shall be cut off from before me: I am Yahweh.
Whatever man of the seed of Aaron is a leper, or has an issue; he shall not eat of the holy things, until he is clean. Whoever touches anything that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goes from him;
or whoever touches any creeping thing, whereby he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may take uncleanness, whatever uncleanness he has;
the soul that touches any such shall be unclean until the even, and shall not eat of the holy things, unless he bathe his flesh in water.
When the sun is down, he shall be clean; and afterward he shall eat of the holy things, because it is his bread.
That which dies of itself, or is torn by animals, he shall not eat, to defile himself therewith: I am Yahweh.
They shall therefore keep my charge, lest they bear sin for it, and die therein, if they profane it: I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.
There shall no stranger eat of the holy thing: a sojourner of the priest's, or a hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing.
But if a priest buy any soul, the purchase of his money, he shall eat of it; and such as are born in his house, they shall eat of his bread.
If a priest's daughter be married to a stranger, she shall not eat of the heave-offering of the holy things.
But if a priest's daughter be a widow, or divorced, and have no child, and be returned to her father's house, as in her youth, she shall eat of her father's bread: but there shall no stranger eat of it.
If a man eat of the holy thing unwittingly, then he shall put the fifth part of it to it, and shall give to the priest the holy thing.
They shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, which they offer to Yahweh,
and \so\ cause them to bear the iniquity that brings guilt, when they eat their holy things: for I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.
Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and tell them, Whoever he be of the house of Israel, or of the sojourners in Israel, that offers his offering, whether it be any of their vows, or any of their freewill-offerings, which they offer to Yahweh for a burnt offering;
that you may be accepted, \you shall offer\ a male without blemish, of the bulls, of the sheep, or of the goats.
But whatever has a blemish, that shall you not offer: for it shall not be acceptable for you.
Whoever offers a sacrifice of peace-offerings to Yahweh to accomplish a vow, or for a freewill-offering, of the herd or of the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish therein.
Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a wen, or scurvy, or scabbed, you shall not offer these to Yahweh, nor make an offering by fire of them on the altar to Yahweh.
Either a bull or a lamb that has any deformity or lacking in his parts, that may you offer for a freewill-offering; but for a vow it shall not be accepted.
That which has its stones bruised, or crushed, or broken, or cut, you shall not offer to Yahweh; neither shall you do \thus\ in your land.
Neither from the hand of a foreigner shall you offer the bread of your God of any of these; because their corruption is in them, there is a blemish in them: they shall not be accepted for you.
Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
When a bull, or a sheep, or a goat, is brought forth, then it shall be seven days under the hen; and from the eighth day and thenceforth it shall be accepted for the offering of an offering made by fire to Yahweh.
Whether it be cow or ewe, you shall not kill it and its young both in one day.
When you sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving to Yahweh, you shall sacrifice it that you may be accepted.
On the same day it shall be eaten; you shall leave none of it until the morning: I am Yahweh.
Therefore shall you keep my commandments, and do them: I am Yahweh.
You shall not profane my holy name; but I will be made holy among the children of Israel: I am Yahweh who makes you holy,
who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am Yahweh.
