You shall make you no idols, neither shall you rear you up an engraved image, or a pillar, neither shall you place any figured stone in your land, to bow down to it: for I am Yahweh your God.
You shall keep my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am Yahweh.
If you walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;
then I will give your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.
Your threshing shall reach to the vintage, and the vintage shall reach to the sowing time; and you shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely.
I will give peace in the land, and you shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid: and I will cause evil animals to cease out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land.
You shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword.
Five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase ten thousand; and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword.
I will have respect to you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and will establish my covenant with you.
You shall eat old store long kept, and you shall bring forth the old because of the new.
I will set my tent among you: and my soul won't abhor you.
I will walk among you, and will be your God, and you shall be my people.
I am Yahweh your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that you should not be their bondservants; and I have broken the bars of your yoke, and made you go upright.
But if you will not listen to me, and will not do all these commandments;
and if you shall reject my statutes, and if your soul abhor my ordinances, so that you will not do all my commandments, but break my covenant;
I also will do this to you: I will appoint terror over you, even consumption and fever, that shall consume the eyes, and make the soul to pine away; and you shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it.
I will set my face against you, and you shall be struck before your enemies: those who hate you shall rule over you; and you shall flee when none pursues you.
If you will not yet for these things listen to me, then I will chastise you seven times more for your sins.
I will break the pride of your power: and I will make your sky as iron, and your earth as brass;
and your strength shall be spent in vain; for your land shall not yield its increase, neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruit.
If you walk contrary to me, and won't listen to me, I will bring seven times more plagues on you according to your sins.
I will send the animal of the field among you, which shall rob you of your children, and destroy your cattle, and make you few in number; and your ways shall become desolate.
If by these things you won't be reformed to me, but will walk contrary to me;
then will I also walk contrary to you; and I will strike you, even I, seven times for your sins.
I will bring a sword on you, that shall execute the vengeance of the covenant; and you shall be gathered together within your cities: and I will send the pestilence among you; and you shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy.
When I break your staff of bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver your bread again by weight: and you shall eat, and not be satisfied.
If you won't for all this listen to me, but walk contrary to me;
then I will walk contrary to you in wrath; and I also will chastise you seven times for your sins.
You shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall you eat.
I will destroy your high places, and cut down your sun-images, and cast your dead bodies on the bodies of your idols; and my soul shall abhor you.
I will make your cities a waste, and will bring your sanctuaries to desolation, and I won't smell the savor of your sweet odors.
I will bring the land into desolation; and your enemies that dwell therein shall be astonished at it.
You will I scatter among the nations, and I will draw out the sword after you: and your land shall be a desolation, and your cities shall be a waste.
Then shall the land enjoy its Sabbaths, as long as it lies desolate, and you are in your enemies' land; even then shall the land rest, and enjoy its Sabbaths.
As long as it lies desolate it shall have rest, even the rest which it didn't have in your Sabbaths, when you lived on it.
As for those who are left of you, I will send a faintness into their heart in the lands of their enemies: and the sound of a driven leaf shall chase them; and they shall flee, as one flees from the sword; and they shall fall when none pursues.
They shall stumble one on another, as it were before the sword, when none pursues: and you shall have no power to stand before your enemies.
You shall perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies shall eat you up.
Those who are left of you shall pine away in their iniquity in your enemies' lands; and also in the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them.
They shall confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their fathers, in their trespass which they trespassed against me, and also that, because they walked contrary to me,
I also walked contrary to them, and brought them into the land of their enemies: if then their uncircumcised heart be humbled, and they then accept of the punishment of their iniquity;
then will I remember my covenant with Jacob; and also my covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham will I remember; and I will remember the land.
The land also shall be left by them, and shall enjoy its Sabbaths, while it lies desolate without them: and they shall accept of the punishment of their iniquity; because, even because they rejected my ordinances, and their soul abhorred my statutes.
Yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them, neither will I abhor them, to destroy them utterly, and to break my covenant with them; for I am Yahweh their God;
but I will for their sakes remember the covenant of their ancestors, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God: I am Yahweh.
These are the statutes and ordinances and laws, which Yahweh made between him and the children of Israel in Mount Sinai by Moses.
