Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, When a man shall accomplish a vow, the persons shall be for Yahweh by your estimation.
Your estimation shall be of the male from twenty years old even to sixty years old, even your estimation shall be fifty shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary.
If it be a female, then your estimation shall be thirty shekels.
If it be from five years old even to twenty years old, then your estimation shall be of the male twenty shekels, and for the female ten shekels.
If it be from a month old even to five years old, then your estimation shall be of the male five shekels of silver, and for the female your estimation shall be three shekels of silver.
If it be from sixty years old and upward; if it be a male, then your estimation shall be fifteen shekels, and for the female ten shekels.
But if he be poorer than your estimation, then he shall be set before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according to the ability of him who vowed shall the priest value him.
If it be a animal, whereof men offer an offering to Yahweh, all that any man gives of such to Yahweh shall be holy.
He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good: and if he shall at all change animal for animal, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy.
If it be any unclean animal, of which they do not offer an offering to Yahweh, then he shall set the animal before the priest;
and the priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad: as you the priest value it, so shall it be.
But if he will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of it to your estimation.
When a man shall sanctify his house to be holy to Yahweh, then the priest shall estimate it, whether it be good or bad: as the priest shall estimate it, so shall it stand.
If he who sanctified it will redeem his house, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your estimation to it, and it shall be his.
If a man shall sanctify to Yahweh part of the field of his possession, then your estimation shall be according to the sowing of it: the sowing of a homer of barley \shall be valued\ at fifty shekels of silver.
If he sanctify his field from the year of jubilee, according to your estimation it shall stand.
But if he sanctify his field after the jubilee, then the priest shall reckon to him the money according to the years that remain to the year of jubilee; and an abatement shall be made from your estimation.
If he who sanctified the field will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your estimation to it, and it shall be assured to him.
If he will not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more:
but the field, when it goes out in the jubilee, shall be holy to Yahweh, as a field devoted; the possession of it shall be the priest's.
If he sanctify to Yahweh a field which he has bought, which is not of the field of his possession;
then the priest shall reckon to him the worth of your estimation to the year of jubilee: and he shall give your estimation in that day, as a holy thing to Yahweh.
In the year of jubilee the field shall return to him of whom it was bought, even to him to whom the possession of the land belongs.
All your estimations shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary: twenty gerahs shall be the shekel.
Only the firstborn among animals, which is made a firstborn to Yahweh, no man shall sanctify it; whether it be ox or sheep, it is Yahweh's.
If it be of an unclean animal, then he shall ransom it according to your estimation, and shall add to it the fifth part of it: or if it isn't redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your estimation.
Notwithstanding, no devoted thing, that a man shall devote to Yahweh of all that he has, whether of man or animal, or of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy to Yahweh.
No one devoted, who shall be devoted from among men, shall be ransomed; he shall surely be put to death.
All the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, is Yahweh's: it is holy to Yahweh.
If a man will redeem anything of his tithe, he shall add to it the fifth part of it.
All the tithe of the herd or the flock, whatever passes under the rod, the tenth shall be holy to Yahweh.
He shall not search whether it be good or bad, neither shall he change it: and if he change it at all, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed.
These are the commandments, which Yahweh commanded Moses for the children of Israel in Mount Sinai.
