If his offering be a sacrifice of peace-offerings; if he offer of the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before Yahweh.
He shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it at the door of the tent of meeting: and Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood on the altar round about.
He shall offer of the sacrifice of peace-offerings an offering made by fire to Yahweh; the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away.
Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar on the burnt offering, which is on the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Yahweh.
If his offering for a sacrifice of peace-offerings to Yahweh be of the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
If he offer a lamb for his offering, then shall he offer it before Yahweh;
and he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it before the tent of meeting: and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle the blood of it on the altar round about.
He shall offer of the sacrifice of peace-offerings an offering made by fire to Yahweh; the fat of it, the fat tail entire, he shall take away hard by the backbone; and the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away.
The priest shall burn it on the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire to Yahweh.
If his offering be a goat, then he shall offer it before Yahweh:
and he shall lay his hand on the head of it, and kill it before the tent of meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood of it on the altar round about.
He shall offer of it his offering, \even\ an offering made by fire to Yahweh; the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away.
The priest shall burn them on the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire, for a sweet savor; all the fat is Yahweh's.
It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings, that you shall eat neither fat nor blood.
