Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, If anyone shall sin unwittingly, in any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and shall do any one of them:
if the anointed priest shall sin so as to bring guilt on the people, then let him offer for his sin, which he has sinned, a young bull without blemish to Yahweh for a sin-offering.
He shall bring the bull to the door of the tent of meeting before Yahweh; and he shall lay his hand on the head of the bull, and kill the bull before Yahweh.
The anointed priest shall take of the blood of the bull, and bring it to the tent of meeting:
and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle of the blood seven times before Yahweh, before the veil of the sanctuary.
The priest shall put of the blood on the horns of the altar of sweet incense before Yahweh, which is in the tent of meeting; and all the blood of the bull shall he pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the door of the tent of meeting.
All the fat of the bull of the sin-offering he shall take off from it; the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away,
as it is taken off from the ox of the sacrifice of peace-offerings: and the priest shall burn them on the altar of burnt offering.
The skin of the bull, and all its flesh, with its head, and with its legs, and its inwards, and its dung,
even the whole bull shall he carry forth outside the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and burn it on wood with fire: where the ashes are poured out shall it be burnt.
If the whole congregation of Israel err, and the thing be hid from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and are guilty;
when the sin in which they have sinned is known, then the assembly shall offer a young bull for a sin-offering, and bring it before the tent of meeting.
The elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bull before Yahweh; and the bull shall be killed before Yahweh.
The anointed priest shall bring of the blood of the bull to the tent of meeting:
and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before Yahweh, before the veil.
He shall put of the blood on the horns of the altar which is before Yahweh, that is in the tent of meeting; and all the blood shall he pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the door of the tent of meeting.
All the fat of it shall he take off from it, and burn it on the altar.
Thus shall he do with the bull; as he did with the bull of the sin-offering, so shall he do with this; and the priest shall make atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven.
He shall carry forth the bull outside the camp, and burn it as he burned the first bull: it is the sin-offering for the assembly.
When a ruler sins, and does unwittingly any one of all the things which Yahweh his God has commanded not to be done, and is guilty;
if his sin, in which he has sinned, be made known to him, he shall bring for his offering a goat, a male without blemish.
He shall lay his hand on the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt-offering before Yahweh: it is a sin-offering.
The priest shall take of the blood of the sin-offering with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and the blood of it shall he pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering.
All the fat of it shall he burn on the altar, as the fat of the sacrifice of peace-offerings; and the priest shall make atonement for him as concerning his sin, and he shall be forgiven.
If anyone of the common people sin unwittingly, in doing any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and be guilty;
if his sin, which he has sinned, be made known to him, then he shall bring for his offering a goat, a female without blemish, for his sin which he has sinned.
He shall lay his hand on the head of the sin-offering, and kill the sin-offering in the place of burnt offering.
The priest shall take of the blood of it with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and all the blood of it shall he pour out at the base of the altar.
All the fat of it shall he take away, as the fat is taken away from off the sacrifice of peace-offerings; and the priest shall burn it on the altar for a sweet savor to Yahweh; and the priest shall make atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven.
If he bring a lamb as his offering for a sin-offering, he shall bring it a female without blemish.
He shall lay his hand on the head of the sin-offering, and kill it for a sin-offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering.
The priest shall take of the blood of the sin-offering with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and all the blood of it shall he pour out at the base of the altar:
and all the fat of it shall he take away, as the fat of the lamb is taken away from the sacrifice of peace-offerings; and the priest shall burn them on the altar, on the offerings of Yahweh made by fire; and the priest shall make atonement for him as touching his sin that he has sinned, and he shall be forgiven.
