Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
If anyone sins, and commit a trespass against Yahweh, and deal falsely with his neighbor in a matter of deposit, or of bargain, or of robbery, or have oppressed his neighbor,
or have found that which was lost, and deal falsely therein, and swear to a lie; in any of all these things that a man does, sinning therein;
then it shall be, if he has sinned, and is guilty, that he shall restore that which he took by robbery, or the thing which he has gotten by oppression, or the deposit which was committed to him, or the lost thing which he found,
or any thing about which he has sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in full, and shall add the fifth part more thereto: to him to whom it appertains shall he give it, in the day of his being found guilty.
He shall bring his trespass-offering to Yahweh, a ram without blemish out of the flock, according to your estimation, for a trespass-offering, to the priest:
and the priest shall make atonement for him before Yahweh; and he shall be forgiven concerning whatever he does so as to be guilty thereby.
Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: the burnt offering shall be on the hearth on the altar all night to the morning; and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning thereon.
The priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen breeches shall he put on his flesh; and he shall take up the ashes whereto the fire has consumed the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.
He shall put off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes outside of the camp to a clean place.
The fire on the altar shall be kept burning thereon, it shall not go out; and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning: and he shall lay the burnt offering in order on it, and shall burn thereon the fat of the peace-offerings.
Fire shall be kept burning on the altar continually; it shall not go out.
This is the law of the meal-offering: the sons of Aaron shall offer it before Yahweh, before the altar.
He shall take up therefrom his handful, of the fine flour of the meal-offering, and of the oil of it, and all the frankincense which is on the meal-offering, and shall burn it on the altar for a sweet savor, as the memorial of it, to Yahweh.
That which is left of it shall Aaron and his sons eat: it shall be eaten without yeast in a holy place; in the court of the tent of meeting they shall eat it.
It shall not be baked with yeast. I have given it as their portion of my offerings made by fire; it is most holy, as the sin-offering, and as the trespass-offering.
Every male among the children of Aaron shall eat of it, as \his\ portion for ever throughout your generations, from the offerings of Yahweh made by fire: whoever touches them shall be holy.
Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to Yahweh in the day when he is anointed: the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering perpetually, half of it in the morning, and half of it in the evening.
On a baking-pan it shall be made with oil; when it is soaked, you shall bring it in: in baked pieces shall you offer the meal-offering for a sweet savor to Yahweh.
The anointed priest that shall be in his place from among his sons shall offer it: by a statute for ever it shall be wholly burnt to Yahweh.
Every meal-offering of the priest shall be wholly burnt: it shall not be eaten.
Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin-offering: in the place where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin-offering be killed before Yahweh: it is most holy.
The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it: in a holy place shall it be eaten, in the court of the tent of meeting.
Whatever shall touch the flesh of it shall be holy; and when there is sprinkled of the blood of it on any garment, you shall wash that whereon it was sprinkled in a holy place.
But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken; and if it be boiled in a brazen vessel, it shall be scoured, and rinsed in water.
Every male among the priests shall eat of it: it is most holy.
No sin-offering, whereof any of the blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the holy place, shall be eaten: it shall be burnt with fire.
