This is the law of the trespass-offering: it is most holy.
In the place where they kill the burnt offering shall they kill the trespass-offering; and the blood of it shall he sprinkle on the altar round about.
He shall offer of it all the fat of it: the fat tail, and the fat that covers the inwards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away;
and the priest shall burn them on the altar for an offering made by fire to Yahweh: it is a trespass-offering.
Every male among the priests shall eat of it: it shall be eaten in a holy place: it is most holy.
As is the sin-offering, so is the trespass-offering; there is one law for them: the priest who makes atonement therewith, he shall have it.
The priest who offers any man's burnt offering, even the priest shall have to himself the skin of the burnt offering which he has offered.
Every meal-offering that is baked in the oven, and all that is dressed in the frying-pan, and on the baking-pan, shall be the priest's who offers it.
Every meal-offering, mingled with oil, or dry, shall all the sons of Aaron have, one as well as another.
This is the law of the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which one shall offer to Yahweh.
If he offer it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mingled with oil, of fine flour soaked.
With cakes of leavened bread he shall offer his offering with the sacrifice of his peace-offerings for thanksgiving.
Of it he shall offer one out of each offering for a heave-offering to Yahweh; it shall be the priest's who sprinkles the blood of the peace-offerings.
The flesh of the sacrifice of his peace-offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his offering; he shall not leave any of it until the morning.
But if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, or a freewill-offering, it shall be eaten on the day that he offers his sacrifice; and on the next day that which remains of it shall be eaten:
but that which remains of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burnt with fire.
If any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace-offerings be eaten on the third day, it shall not be accepted, neither shall it be imputed to him who offers it: it shall be an abomination, and the soul who eats of it shall bear his iniquity.
The flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be burnt with fire. As for the flesh, everyone who is clean shall eat of it:
but the soul who eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace-offerings, that pertain to Yahweh, having his uncleanness on him, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
When anyone shall touch any unclean thing, the uncleanness of man, or an unclean animal, or any unclean abomination, and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which pertain to Yahweh, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, You shall eat no fat, of ox, or sheep, or goat.
The fat of that which dies of itself, and the fat of that which is torn of animals, may be used for any other service; but you shall in no way eat of it.
For whoever eats the fat of the animal, of which men offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh, even the soul who eats it shall be cut off from his people.
You shall eat no manner of blood, whether it be of bird or of animal, in any of your dwellings.
Whoever it be who eats any blood, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, He who offers the sacrifice of his peace-offerings to Yahweh shall bring his offering to Yahweh out of the sacrifice of his peace-offerings:
his own hands shall bring the offerings of Yahweh made by fire; the fat with the breast shall he bring, that the breast may be waved for a wave-offering before Yahweh.
The priest shall burn the fat on the altar; but the breast shall be Aaron's and his sons'.
The right thigh shall you give to the priest for a heave-offering out of the sacrifices of your peace-offerings.
He among the sons of Aaron who offers the blood of the peace-offerings, and the fat, shall have the right thigh for a portion.
For the wave-breast and the heave-thigh have I taken of the children of Israel out of the sacrifices of their peace-offerings, and have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons as \their\ portion forever from the children of Israel.
This is the anointing-portion of Aaron, and the anointing-portion of his sons, out of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire, in the day when he presented them to minister to Yahweh in the priest's office;
which Yahweh commanded to be given them of the children of Israel, in the day that he anointed them. It is \their\ portion for ever throughout their generations.
This is the law of the burnt offering, of the meal-offering, and of the sin-offering, and of the trespass-offering, and of the consecration, and of the sacrifice of peace- offerings;
which Yahweh commanded Moses in Mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded the children of Israel to offer their offerings to Yahweh, in the wilderness of Sinai.
