It happened on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
and he said to Aaron, Take a calf of the herd for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, without blemish, and offer them before Yahweh.
To the children of Israel you shall speak, saying, Take a male goat for a sin-offering; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt offering;
and an ox and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before Yahweh; and a meal-offering mingled with oil: for today Yahweh appears to you.
They brought that which Moses commanded before the tent of meeting: and all the congregation drew near and stood before Yahweh.
Moses said, This is the thing which Yahweh commanded that you should do: and the glory of Yahweh shall appear to you.
Moses said to Aaron, Draw near to the altar, and offer your sin-offering, and your burnt offering, and make atonement for yourself, and for the people; and offer the offering of the people, and make atonement for them; as Yahweh commanded.
So Aaron drew near to the altar, and killed the calf of the sin-offering, which was for himself.
The sons of Aaron presented the blood to him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it on the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar:
but the fat, and the kidneys, and the cover from the liver of the sin-offering, he burnt on the altar; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
The flesh and the skin he burnt with fire outside of the camp.
He killed the burnt offering; and Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, and he sprinkled it on the altar round about.
They delivered the burnt- offering to him, piece by piece, and the head: and he burnt them on the altar.
He washed the inwards and the legs, and burnt them on the burnt offering on the altar.
He presented the people's offering, and took the goat of the sin-offering which was for the people, and killed it, and offered it for sin, as the first.
He presented the burnt-offering, and offered it according to the ordinance.
He presented the meal-offering, and filled his hand therefrom, and burnt it on the altar, besides the burnt offering of the morning.
He killed also the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, which he sprinkled on the altar round about,
and the fat of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers \the inwards\, and the kidneys, and the cover of the liver:
and they put the fat on the breasts, and he burnt the fat on the altar:
and the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave-offering before Yahweh; as Moses commanded.
Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin-offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace-offerings.
Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of Yahweh appeared to all the people.
There came forth fire from before Yahweh, and consumed on the altar the burnt offering and the fat: and when all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.
