The first therefore also indeed had ordinances of service,  and the sanctuary, a worldly one.
For a tabernacle was set up; the first, in which \were\ both  the candlestick and the table and the exposition of the loaves,  which is called Holy;
but after the second veil a tabernacle which is called Holy  of holies,
having a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant, covered  round in every part with gold, in which \were\ the golden pot  that had the manna, and the rod of Aaron that had sprouted, and  the tables of the covenant;
and above over it the cherubim of glory shadowing the  mercy-seat; concerning which it is not now \the time\ to speak  in detail.
Now these things being thus ordered, into the first  tabernacle the priests enter at all times, accomplishing the  services;
but into the second, the high priest only, once a year, not  without blood, which he offers for himself and for the errors  of the people:
the Holy Spirit shewing this, that the way of the \holy of\  holies has not yet been made manifest while as yet the first  tabernacle has \its\ standing;
the which \is\ an image for the present time, according to  which both gifts and sacrifices, unable to perfect as to  conscience him that worshipped, are offered,
\consisting\ only of meats and drinks and divers washings,  ordinances of flesh, imposed until \the\ time of setting things  right.
But Christ being come high priest of the good things to  come, by the better and more perfect tabernacle not made with  hand, (that is, not of this creation,)
nor by blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood, has  entered in once for all into the \holy of\ holies, having found  an eternal redemption.
For if the blood of goats and bulls, and a heifer`s ashes  sprinkling the defiled, sanctifies for the purity of the flesh,
how much rather shall the blood of the Christ, who by the  eternal Spirit offered himself spotless to God, purify your  conscience from dead works to worship \the\ living God?
And for this reason he is mediator of a new covenant, so  that, death having taken place for redemption of the  transgressions under the first covenant, the called might  receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
(For where \there is\ a testament, the death of the  testator must needs come in.
For a testament \is\ of force when men are dead, since it  is in no way of force while the testator is alive.)
Whence neither the first was inaugurated without blood.
For every commandment having been spoken according to \the\  law by Moses to all the people; having taken the blood of  calves and goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, he  sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
saying, This \is\ the blood of the covenant which God has  enjoined to you.
And the tabernacle too and all the vessels of service he  sprinkled in like manner with blood;
and almost all things are purified with blood according to  the law, and without blood-shedding there is no remission.
\It was\ necessary then that the figurative representations  of the things in the heavens should be purified with these; but  the heavenly things themselves with sacrifices better than  these.
For the Christ is not entered into holy places made with  hand, figures of the true, but into heaven itself, now to  appear before the face of God for us:
nor in order that he should offer himself often, as the  high priest enters into the holy places every year with blood  not his own;
since he had \then\ been obliged often to suffer from the  foundation of the world. But now once in the consummation of  the ages he has been manifested for \the\ putting away of sin  by his sacrifice.
And forasmuch as it is the portion of men once to die, and  after this judgment;
thus the Christ also, having been once offered to bear the  sins of many, shall appear to those that look for him the  second time without sin for salvation.
