And David spoke to Jehovah the words of this song in the  day that Jehovah had delivered him out of the hand of all his  enemies, and out of the hand of Saul.
And he said, Jehovah is my rock, and my fortress, and my  deliverer;
God is my rock, in him will I trust -- My shield, and the  horn of my salvation, My high tower, and my refuge, My saviour:  thou wilt save me from violence.
I will call upon Jehovah, who is to be praised; So shall I  be saved from mine enemies.
For the waves of death encompassed me, Torrents of Belial  made me afraid.
The bands of Sheol surrounded me; The cords of death  encountered me;
In my distress I called upon Jehovah, And I cried to my  God; And he heard my voice out of his temple, And my cry \came\  into his ears.
Then the earth shook, and quaked; The foundations of the  heavens trembled And shook because he was wroth.
There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, And fire out of  his mouth devoured: Coals burned forth from it.
And he bowed the heavens, and came down; And darkness was  under his feet.
And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly; And he was seen  upon the wings of the wind.
And he made darkness round about him a tent, Gatherings of  waters, thick clouds of the skies.
From the brightness before him Burned forth coals of fire.
Jehovah thundered from the heavens, And the Most High  uttered his voice.
And he sent arrows, and scattered \mine enemies\;  Lightning, and discomfited them.
And the beds of the sea were seen, The foundations of the  world were uncovered At the rebuke of Jehovah, At the blast of  the breath of his nostrils.
He reached forth from above, he took me, He drew me out of  great waters;
He delivered me from my strong enemy, From them that hated  me; For they were mightier than I.
They encountered me in the day of my calamity; But Jehovah  was my stay.
And he brought me forth into a large place; He delivered  me, because he delighted in me.
Jehovah hath rewarded me according to my righteousness,  According to the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.
For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, And have not wickedly  departed from my God.
For all his ordinances were before me, And his statutes, I  did not depart from them,
And I was upright before him, And kept myself from mine  iniquity.
And Jehovah hath recompensed me according to my  righteousness, According to my cleanness in his sight.
With the gracious thou dost shew thyself gracious; With  the upright man thou dost shew thyself upright;
With the pure thou dost shew thyself pure; And with the  perverse thou dost shew thyself contrary.
And the afflicted people thou dost save; And thine eyes  are upon the haughty, \whom\ thou bringest down.
For thou art my lamp, Jehovah; And Jehovah enlighteneth my  darkness.
For by thee I have run through a troop; By my God have I  leaped over a wall.
As for ùGod, his way is perfect; The word of Jehovah is  tried: He is a shield to all that trust in him.
For who is ùGod, save Jehovah? And who is a rock, save our  God?
ùGod is my strong fortress, And he maketh my way perfectly  smooth.
He maketh my feet like hinds` \feet\, And setteth me upon  my high places.
He teacheth my hands to war, And mine arms bend a bow of  brass.
And thou didst give me the shield of thy salvation, And  thy condescending gentleness hath made me great.
Thou enlargedst my steps under me; And mine ankles did not  slip.
I pursued mine enemies, and destroyed them, And I turned  not again till they were consumed.
And I have consumed them and have crushed them, and they  rose not again; Yea, they fell under my feet.
And thou girdedst me with strength to battle: Thou didst  subdue under me those that rose up against me.
And mine enemies didst thou make to turn their backs unto  me, And those that hated me I destroyed.
They looked, and there was none to save -- Unto Jehovah,  and he answered them not.
And I did beat them small as the dust of the earth, I trod  them as the mire of the streets; I stamped upon them.
And thou hast delivered me from the strivings of my  people, Thou hast kept me to be head of the nations: A people I  knew not doth serve me:
Strangers come cringing unto me: At the hearing of the  ear, they obey me.
Strangers have faded away, And they come trembling forth  from their close places.
Jehovah liveth; and blessed be my rock; And exalted be the  God, the rock of my salvation,
The ùGod who hath avenged me, And hath brought the peoples  under me.
He brought me forth from mine enemies: Yea, thou hast  lifted me up above them that rose up against me; From the man  of violence hast thou delivered me.
Therefore will I give thanks to thee, Jehovah, among the  nations, And will sing psalms to thy name.
\It is he\ who giveth great deliverances to his king, And  sheweth loving-kindness to his anointed, To David, and to his  seed for evermore.
