And the war was long between the house of Saul and the house  of David; but David became continually stronger, and the house  of Saul became continually weaker.
And to David were sons born in Hebron: his firstborn was  Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jizreelitess;
and his second, Chileab, of Abigail the wife of Nabal the  Carmelite; and the third, Absalom the son of Maachah, daughter  of Talmai king of Geshur;
and the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; and the fifth,  Shephatiah the son of Abital;
and the sixth, Ithream, of Eglah David`s wife. These were  born to David in Hebron.
And it came to pass while there was war between the house of  Saul and the house of David, that Abner made himself strong for  the house of Saul.
And Saul had a concubine whose name was Rizpah, the daughter  of Aiah. And \Ishbosheth\ said to Abner, Why hast thou gone in  to my father`s concubine?
Then was Abner very wroth for the words of Ishbosheth, and  said, Am I a dog`s head, I who against Judah do shew kindness  this day to the house of Saul thy father, to his brethren, and  to his friends, and have not delivered thee into the hand of  David, that thou reproachest me this day with the fault of this  woman?
So do God to Abner, and more also, if, as Jehovah has sworn  to David, I do not so to him;
to translate the kingdom from the house of Saul, and to set  up the throne of David over Israel and over Judah, from Dan  even to Beer-sheba!
And he could not answer Abner a word again, because he  feared him.
And Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying,  Whose is the land? saying \also\, Make thy covenant with me,  and behold, my hand shall be with thee, to turn all Israel to  thee.
And he said, Well, I will make a covenant with thee; only I  require one thing of thee, that is, Thou shalt not see my face,  except thou first bring Michal Saul`s daughter, when thou  comest to see my face.
And David sent messengers to Ishbosheth Saul`s son, saying,  Deliver me my wife Michal, whom I espoused to me for a hundred  foreskins of the Philistines.
And Ishbosheth sent, and took her from \her\ husband, from  Phaltiel the son of Laish.
And her husband went with her along weeping behind her to  Bahurim. Then said Abner to him, Go, return. And he returned.
Now Abner had communicated with the elders of Israel,  saying, Ye sought for David aforetime to be king over you;
and now do \it\, for Jehovah has spoken of David, saying,  By my servant David will I save my people Israel out of the  hand of the Philistines, and out of the hand of all their  enemies.
And Abner also spoke in the ears of Benjamin; and Abner  went also to speak in the ears of David in Hebron all that  seemed good to Israel, and that seemed good to the whole house  of Benjamin.
So Abner came to David to Hebron, and twenty men with him.  And David made Abner and the men that were with him a repast.
And Abner said to David, I will arise and go, and will  gather all Israel to my lord the king, that they may make a  covenant with thee, and that thou mayest reign over all that  thy heart desires. And David sent Abner away; and he went in  peace.
And behold, the servants of David and Joab came from an  expedition, and brought in a great spoil with them; but Abner  was no longer with David in Hebron, for he had sent him away,  and he had gone in peace.
And Joab and all the host that was with him came; and they  told Joab, saying, Abner the son of Ner came to the king, and  he has sent him away; and he is gone in peace.
Then Joab came to the king, and said, What hast thou done?  behold, Abner came to thee; why is it \that\ thou hast sent him  away, and he is gone?
Thou knowest Abner the son of Ner, that he came to deceive  thee, to know thy going out and thy coming in, and to know all  that thou doest.
And when Joab was come out from David, he sent messengers  after Abner, who brought him again from the well of Sirah; but  David did not know it.
And when Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside  in the gate to speak with him secretly, and smote him there in  the belly, that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother.
And afterwards David heard \it\, and he said, I and my  kingdom are guiltless before Jehovah for ever from the blood of  Abner the son of Ner:
let it fall on the head of Joab, and on all his father`s  house; and let there not fail from the house of Joab one that  has an issue, or that is a leper, or that leans on a staff, or  that falls by the sword, or that lacks bread!
So Joab and Abishai his brother killed Abner, because he  had slain their brother Asahel at Gibeon in the battle.
And David said to Joab, and to all the people that were  with him, Rend your garments, and gird yourselves with  sackcloth, and mourn before Abner. And king David followed the  bier.
And they buried Abner in Hebron; and the king lifted up his  voice and wept at the grave of Abner; and all the people wept.
And the king lamented over Abner, and said, Should Abner  die as a fool dieth?
Thy hands were not bound, Nor thy feet put into fetters; As  a man falleth before wicked men, Fellest thou! And all the  people wept again over him.
And all the people came to cause David to eat bread while  it was yet day; but David swore, saying, So do God to me, and  more also, if I taste bread or aught else till the sun be down!
And all the people remarked it, and it pleased them; as  whatever the king did pleased all the people.
And all the people and all Israel understood that day that  it was not of the king to put Abner the son of Ner to death.
And the king said to his servants, Know ye not that there  is a prince and a great man fallen this day in Israel?
And I am this day weak, though anointed king; and these  men, the sons of Zeruiah, are too hard for me: Jehovah reward  the doer of evil according to his wickedness!
