And David said, This is the house of Jehovah Elohim, and  this is the altar of burnt-offering for Israel.
And David commanded to collect the strangers that were in  the land of Israel; and he set masons to hew wrought stones to  build the house of God.
And David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the  doors of the gates, and for the joists, and brass in abundance  without weight;
and cedar-trees innumerable; for the Zidonians and they of  Tyre brought cedar-wood in abundance to David.
For David said, Solomon my son is young and tender, and the  house that is to be built for Jehovah must be exceeding great  in fame and in beauty in all lands: I will therefore make  preparation for it. And David prepared abundantly before his  death.
And he called for Solomon his son, and charged him to build  a house for Jehovah the God of Israel.
And David said to Solomon, As for me, my son, I was minded  to build a house unto the name of Jehovah my God.
But the word of Jehovah came to me saying, Thou hast shed  blood abundantly, and hast made great wars: thou shalt not  build a house unto my name, for thou hast shed much blood upon  the earth in my sight.
Behold, a son shall be born to thee, who shall be a man of  rest; and I will give him rest from all his enemies round  about; for his name shall be Solomon, and in his days I will  give peace and quietness unto Israel.
He shall build a house unto my name; and he shall be my  son, and I will be his father; and I will establish the throne  of his kingdom over Israel for ever.
Now, my son, Jehovah be with thee, that thou mayest  prosper, and build the house of Jehovah thy God, as he has said  of thee.
Only, Jehovah give thee wisdom and understanding, and  place thee over Israel, and to keep the law of Jehovah thy God.
Then shalt thou prosper, if thou takest heed to perform  the statutes and ordinances which Jehovah commanded Moses for  Israel: be strong and courageous; fear not, neither be  dismayed.
And behold, in my affliction I have prepared for the house  of Jehovah a hundred thousand talents of gold, and a thousand  thousand talents of silver; and of brass and iron without  weight, for it is in abundance; and timber and stone have I  prepared; and thou shalt add to it.
And there are workmen with thee in abundance, hewers and  workers of stone and timber, and all manner of skilful men for  every kind of work.
Of the gold, the silver, and the brass, and the iron,  there is no number. Arise and be doing and Jehovah be with  thee.
And David commanded all the princes of Israel to help  Solomon his son, \saying,\
Is not Jehovah your God with you? and has he \not\ given  you rest on every side? for he has given the inhabitants of the  land into my hand; and the land is subdued before Jehovah, and  before his people.
Now set your heart and your soul to seek Jehovah your God;  and arise and build the sanctuary of Jehovah Elohim, to bring  the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and the vessels of the  sanctuary of God into the house that is to be built unto the  name of Jehovah.
