But with respect to the Coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and  our being  gathered to meet Him, we entreat you, brethren,
not readily to become unsettled in mind or troubled--either by any pretended spiritual revelation or by any message or letter claiming to have been sent by us--through fancying that the day of the Lord is now here.
Let no one in any way deceive you, for that day cannot come without the coming of the apostasy first, and  the appearing of  the man of sin, the son of perdition, who sets himself against,
and exalts himself above, every so-called `god' or object of worship, and goes the length of taking his seat in the very temple of God, giving it out that he himself is God.
Do you not remember that while I was still with you I used to tell you all this?
And now you know  what restrains him, in order that his true character may be revealed at his appointed time.
For lawlessness is already at work in secret; but only until the man who is now exercising a restraining influence is removed,
and then the Lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will sweep away with the  tempest of His anger, and utterly overwhelm by the awful splendour of His Coming.
The appearing of the Lawless one will be attended by various miracles and tokens and delusive marvels--for so Satan works--
and by every kind of wicked deception for those who are on the way to perdition because they did not welcome into their hearts the love of the truth, so that they might be saved.
And for this reason God sends them a misleading influence that they may believe  the lie;
in order that all may come under judgement who have refused to believe the truth and have taken pleasure in unrighteousness.
And from us thanks are always due to God on your behalf--brethren whom the Lord loves--because God  from the beginning has chosen you for salvation  through the Spirit's sanctifying influence and your belief in the truth.
To this blessing God has called you by our Good News, so that you may have a share in the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
So then, brethren, stand your ground, and hold fast to the teachings which you have received from us, whether by word of mouth or by letter.
And may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself--and God our Father who has loved us and has given us in His grace eternal consolation and a bright hope--
comfort your hearts and make you stedfast in every good work and word.
