Finally, brethren, pray for us, asking that the Lord's Message  may be spread rapidly and its glory be displayed, as it was displayed among you;
and that we may be delivered from wrong-headed and wicked men; for it is not everybody who has faith.
But the Lord is faithful, and He will make you stedfast and will guard you from the Evil one.
And we have confidence in the Lord in regard to you that you are doing, and will do, what we command.
And may the Lord guide your hearts into the love of God and into the patience of Christ.
But,  by the authority of  the Lord, we command you, brethren, to stand aloof from every brother whose life is disorderly and not in accordance with the teaching which all received from us.
For you yourselves know that it is your duty to follow our example. There was no disorder in our lives among you,
nor did we eat any one's bread  without paying for it, but we laboured and toiled, working hard night and day in order not to be a burden to any of you.
This was not because we had not  a claim upon you, but it arose from a desire to set you an example--for you to imitate us.
For even when we were with you, we laid down this rule for you: "If a man does not choose to work, neither shall he eat."
For we hear that there are some of you who live disorderly lives and are mere idle busybodies.
To persons of that sort our injunction--and our command by the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ--is that they are to work quietly and eat their own honestly-earned bread.
But you, brethren, must not grow weary  in the path of duty;
and if any one refuses to obey these our written instructions, mark that man and hold no communication with him--so that he may be made to feel ashamed.
And yet do not regard him as an enemy, but caution him as a brother.
And may the Lord of peace Himself continually grant you peace in every sense. The Lord be with you all.
I Paul add the greeting with my own hand, which is the credential in every letter of mine.
This is my handwriting. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
