Therefore, my brethren, dearly loved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand firm in the Lord, my dearly-loved ones.
I entreat Euodia, and I entreat Syntyche, to be of one mind,  as sisters in Christ.
Yes, and I beg you also, my faithful yoke-fellow, to help these women who have shared my toil in connection with the Good News, together with Clement and the rest of my fellow labourers, whose names are recorded in the Book of Life.
Always be glad in the Lord: I will repeat it, be glad.
Let your  forbearing spirit be known to every one--the Lord is near.
Do not be over-anxious about anything, but by prayer and earnest pleading, together with thanksgiving, let your request be unreservedly made known in the presence of God.
And then the peace of God, which transcends all our powers of thought, will be a garrison to guard your hearts and minds in union with Christ Jesus.
Finally, brethren, whatever is  true, whatever wins respect, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovable, whatever is of good repute--if there is any virtue or anything deemed worthy of praise--cherish the thought of these things.
The doctrines and  the line of conduct which I taught you--both what you heard and what you saw in me--  hold fast to them; and God who gives peace will be with you.
But I rejoice with a deep and holy joy that now at length you have revived your thoughtfulness for my welfare. Indeed you have always been thoughtful for me, although opportunity failed you.
I do not refer to this through fear of privation, for (for my part) I have learned, whatever be my outward experiences, to be content.
I know both how to live in humble circumstances and how to live amid abundance. I am  fully initiated into all the mysteries both of fulness and of hunger, of abundance and of want.
I have strength for anything through Him who gives me power.
Yet I thank you for taking your share in my troubles.
And you men and women of Philippi also know that at the first preaching of the Good News, when I had left Macedonia, no other Church except yourselves held communication with me about giving and receiving;
because even in Thessalonica you sent several times to minister to my needs.
Not that I crave for gifts from you, but I do want to see abundant fruit bring you honour.
I have enough of everything--and more than enough. My wants are fully satisfied now that I have received from the hands of Epaphroditus the generous gifts which you sent me--they are a fragrant odor, an acceptable sacrifice, truly pleasing to God.
But my God--so great is His  wealth of glory in Christ Jesus--will fully supply every need of yours.
And to our God and Father be the glory throughout the Ages of the Ages! Amen.
My Christian greetings to every one of God's people. The brethren who are with me send their greetings.
All God's people here greet you--especially the members of Caesar's household.
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirits.
