In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the LORD to Zechariah, the son of Barachiah, the son of Iddo the prophet, saying,
The LORD hath been greatly displeased with your fathers.
Therefore say thou to them, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Turn ye to me, saith the LORD of hosts, and I will turn to you, saith the LORD of hosts.
Be ye not as your fathers, to whom the former prophets have cried, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Turn ye now from your evil ways, and from your evil doings: but they did not hear, nor hearken to me, saith the LORD.
Your fathers, where are they? and the prophets, do they live for ever?
But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not take hold of your fathers? and they returned and said, As the LORD of hosts thought to do to us, according to our ways, and according to our doings, so hath he dealt with us.
Upon the four and twentieth day of the eleventh month, which is the month Sebat, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the LORD to Zechariah, the son of Barachiah, the son of Iddo the prophet, saying,
I saw by night, and behold a man riding upon a red horse, and he stood among the myrtle-trees that were in the bottom; and behind him were there red horses, speckled, and white.
Then said I, O my lord, what are these? And the angel that talked with me said to me, I will show thee what these are.
And the man that stood among the myrtle-trees answered and said, These are they whom the LORD hath sent to walk to and fro through the earth.
And they answered the angel of the LORD that stood among the myrtle-trees, and said, We have walked to and fro through the earth, and behold, all the earth sitteth still, and is at rest.
Then the angel of the LORD answered and said, O LORD of hosts, how long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, against which thou hast had indignation these seventy years.
And the LORD answered the angel that talked with me with good words and comforting words.
So the angel that communed with me said to me, Cry thou, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great jealousy.
And I am very greatly displeased with the heathen that are at ease: for I was but a little displeased, and they helped forward the affliction.
Therefore thus saith the LORD; I have returned to Jerusalem with mercies: my house shall be built in it, saith the LORD of hosts, and a line shall be stretched forth upon Jerusalem.
Cry yet, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; My cities through prosperity shall yet be spread abroad; and the LORD shall yet comfort Zion, and shall yet choose Jerusalem.
Then I lifted up my eyes, and saw, and behold four horns.
And I said to the angel that talked with me, What are these? And he answered me, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.
And the LORD showed me four carpenters.
Then said I, What come these to do? And he spoke, saying, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, so that no man lifted up his head: but these are come to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the Gentiles, which lifted their horn over the land of Judah to scatter it.
 according to  Our likeness, and let them rule over fish of the sea, and over  fowl of the heavens, and over cattle, and over all the earth,  and over every creeping thing that is creeping on the earth.`
And God prepareth the man in His image; in the image of God  He prepared him, a male and a female He prepared them.
And God blesseth them, and God saith to them, `Be fruitful,  and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule over  fish of the sea, and over fowl of the heavens, and over every  living thing that is creeping upon the earth.`
And God saith, `Lo, I have given to you every herb sowing  seed, which \is\ upon the face of all the earth, and every tree  in which \is\ the fruit of a tree sowing seed, to you it is for  food;
and to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the  heavens, and to every creeping thing on the earth, in which  \is\ breath of life, every green herb \is\ for food:` and it is  so.
And God seeth all that He hath done, and lo, very good; and  there is an evening, and there is a morning -- day the sixth.
