And it came to pass on the third day, that Esther put on  royal apparel, and stood in the inner court of the king`s  house, over against the king`s house. And the king sat upon his  royal throne in the royal house, over against the entrance to  the house.
And it was so, when the king saw the queen Esther standing  in the court, that she obtained grace in his sight; and the  king held out to Esther the golden sceptre that was in his  hand; and Esther drew near, and touched the top of the sceptre.
And the king said to her, What wilt thou, queen Esther? and  what is thy request? it shall be given thee even to the half of  the kingdom.
And Esther said, If it seem good to the king, let the king  and Haman come this day to the banquet that I have prepared for  him.
And the king said, Hasten Haman, that it may be done as  Esther has said. And the king and Haman came to the banquet  that Esther had prepared.
And the king said to Esther at the banquet of wine, What is  thy petition? and it shall be granted thee; and what is thy  request? even to the half of the kingdom it shall be done.
And Esther answered and said, My petition and my request is,
If I have found grace in the sight of the king, and if it  please the king to grant my petition, and to perform my  request, let the king and Haman come to the banquet that I  shall prepare for them, and I will do to-morrow according to  the king`s word.
And Haman went forth that day joyful and glad of heart; but  when Haman saw Mordecai in the king`s gate, that he stood not  up nor moved for him, he was full of fury against Mordecai.
But Haman controlled himself, and came home; and he sent  and called for his friends, and Zeresh his wife.
And Haman told them of the glory of his riches, and the  multitude of his children, and all wherein the king had  promoted him, and how he had advanced him above the princes and  servants of the king.
And Haman said, Yea, Esther the queen let no man come in  with the king to the banquet that she had prepared but myself;  and to-morrow also I am invited to her with the king.
Yet all this is of no avail to me so long as I see Mordecai  the Jew sitting at the king`s gate.
Then said Zeresh his wife and all his friends to him, Let a  gallows be made of fifty cubits high, and in the morning speak  to the king that Mordecai may be hanged on it: then go in  merrily with the king to the banquet. And the thing pleased  Haman; and he caused the gallows to be made.
