And the princes of the people dwelt at Jerusalem: but the rest of the people cast lots, to take one part in ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and nine parts in the other cities.
And the people blessed all the men that willingly offered themselves to dwell in Jerusalem.
These therefore are the chief men of the province, who dwelt in Jerusalem, and in the cities of Juda. And every one dwelt in his possession, in their cities: Israel, the priests, the Levites, the Nathinites, and the children of the servants of Solomon.
And in Jerusalem there dwelt some of the children of Juda, and some of the children of Benjamin: of the children of Juda, Athaias the son of Aziam, the son of Zacharias, the son of Amarias, the son of Saphatias, the son of Malaleel: of the sons of Phares,
Maasia the son of Baruch, the son of Cholhoza, the son of Hazia, the son of Adaia, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zacharias, the son of the Silonite:
All these the sons of Phares, who dwelt in Jerusalem, were four hundred sixty-eight valiant men.
And these are the children of Benjamin: Sellum the son of Mosollam, the son of Joed, the son of Phadaia, the son of Colaia, the son of Masia, the son of Etheel, the son of Isaia.
And after him Gebbai, Sellai, nine hundred twenty-eight.
And Joel the son of Zechri their ruler, and Judas the son of Senua was second over the city.
And of the priests Idaia the son of Joarib, Jachin,
Saraia the son of Helcias, the son of Mosollam, the son of Sadoc, the son of Meraioth, the son of Achitob the prince of the house of God,
And their brethren that do the works of the temple: eight hundred twenty- two. And Adaia the son of Jeroham, the son of Phelelia, the son of Amsi, the son of Zacharias, the son of Pheshur, the son of Melchias,
And his brethren the chiefs of the fathers: two hundred forty-two. And Amassai the son of Azreel, the son of Ahazi, the son of Mosollamoth, the son of Emmer,
And their brethren who were very mighty, a hundred twenty-eight: and their ruler Zabdiel son of the mighty.
And of the Levites Semeia the son of Hasub, the son of Azaricam, the son of Hasabia, the son of Boni,
And Sabathai and Jozabed, who were over all the outward business of the house of Cod, of the princes of the Levites,
And Mathania the son of Micha, the son of Zebedei, the son of Asaph, was the principal man to praise, and to give glory in prayer, and Becbecia the second, one of his brethren, and Abda the son of Samua, the son of Galal, the son of Idithun.
All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred eighty-four.
And the porters, Accub, Telmon, and their brethren, who kept the doors: a hundred seventy-two.
And the rest of Israel, the priests and the Levites were in all the cities of Juda, every man in his possession.
And the Nathinites, that dwelt in Ophel, and Siaha, and Gaspha of the Nathinites.
And the overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem, was Azzi the son of Bani, the son of Hasabia, the son of Mathania, the son of Micha. Of the sons of Asaph, were the singing men in the ministry of the house of Cod.
For the king's commandment was concerning them, and an order among the singing men day by day.
And Phathahia the son of Mesezebel of the children of Zara the son of Juda was at the hand of the king, in all matters concerning the people,
And in the houses through all their countries. Of the children of Juda so dwelt at Cariath-Arbe, and in the villages thereof: and at Dibon, and in the villages thereof: and at Cabseel, and in the villages thereof.
And at Jesue, and at Molada, and Bethphaleth,
And at Hasersual, and at Bersabee, and in the villages thereof,
And at Siceleg, and at Mochona, and in the villages thereof,
And at Remmon, and at Saraa, and at Jerimuth,
Zanoa, Odollam, and in their villages, at Lachis and its dependencies, and at Azeca and the villages thereof. And they dwelt from Bersabee unto the valley of Ennom.
And the children of Benjamin, from Geba, at Mechmas, and at Hai, and at Bethel, and in the villages thereof,
At Anathoth, Nob, Anania,
Asor, Rama, Gethaim,
Hadid, Seboim, and Neballat, Led,
And Ono the valley of craftsmen.
And of the Levites were portions of Juda and Benjamin.
