Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign; and  he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem.
And he did evil in the sight of Jehovah, like the  abominations of the nations that Jehovah had dispossessed from  before the children of Israel.
And he built again the high places that Hezekiah his father  had broken down; and he reared up altars to the Baals, and made  Asherahs, and worshipped all the host of heaven and served  them.
And he built altars in the house of Jehovah, of which  Jehovah had said, In Jerusalem shall my name be for ever.
And he built altars to all the host of heaven in both  courts of the house of Jehovah.
He also caused his children to pass through the fire in the  valley of the son of Hinnom; and he used magic and divination  and sorcery, and appointed necromancers and soothsayers: he  wrought evil beyond measure in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke  him to anger.
And he set the graven image of the idol that he had made,  in the house of God, of which God had said to David and to  Solomon his son, In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have  chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name for  ever;
neither will I any more remove the foot of Israel from out  of the land that I have appointed to your fathers; if they will  only take heed to do all that I commanded them through Moses,  according to all the law and the statutes and the ordinances.
And Manasseh led Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem  astray, to do more evil than the nations that Jehovah had  destroyed from before the children of Israel.
And Jehovah spoke to Manasseh and to his people; but they  did not hearken.
And Jehovah brought upon them the captains of the host of  the king of Assyria, who took Manasseh with fetters, and bound  him with chains of brass, and carried him to Babylon.
And when he was in affliction, he besought Jehovah his  God, and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers,
and prayed to him. And he was intreated of him and heard  his supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his  kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that Jehovah, he was God.
And after this he built the outer wall of the city of  David, on the west, toward Gihon, in the valley, even to the  entrance of the fish-gate, and carried it round Ophel, and  raised it up a very great height; and he put captains of war in  all the fortified cities of Judah.
And he removed the strange gods, and the idol out of the  house of Jehovah, and all the altars that he had built on the  mount of the house of Jehovah and in Jerusalem, and cast \them\  out of the city.
And he reinstated the altar of Jehovah, and sacrificed on  it peace-offerings and thank-offerings, and commanded Judah to  serve Jehovah the God of Israel.
Nevertheless, the people sacrificed still on the high  places, although to Jehovah their God only.
And the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and his prayer to  his God, and the words of the seers that spoke to him in the  name of Jehovah the God of Israel, behold, they \are written\  in the acts of the kings of Israel.
And his prayer, and \how God\ was intreated of him, and  all his sin and his unfaithfulness, and the places in which he  built high places, and set up Asherahs and graven images,  before he was humbled, behold, they are written among the words  of Hozai.
And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him  in his own house; and Amon his son reigned in his stead.
Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign; and  he reigned two years in Jerusalem.
And he did evil in the sight of Jehovah, as Manasseh his  father had done; and Amon sacrificed to all the graven images  that Manasseh his father had made, and served them.
And he did not humble himself before Jehovah, as Manasseh  his father had humbled himself; for he, Amon, multiplied  trespass.
And his servants conspired against him, and slew him in  his own house.
But the people of the land smote all them that had  conspired against king Amon; and the people of the land made  Josiah his son king in his stead.
