My son, forget not my law; but let thy heart keep my commandments;
For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee.
Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck; write them upon the table of thy heart:
So shalt thou find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and man.
Trust in the LORD with all thy heart; and lean not to thy own understanding.
In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he will direct thy paths.
Be not wise in thy own eyes: fear the LORD, and depart from evil.
It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones.
Honor the LORD with thy substance, and with the first-fruits of all thy increase:
So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine.
My son, despise not the chastening of the LORD; neither be weary of his correction:
For whom the LORD loveth he correcteth; even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.
Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding.
For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain of it than fine gold.
She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared to her.
Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honor.
Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.
She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her.
The LORD by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens.
By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew.
My son, let not them depart from thy eyes: keep sound wisdom and discretion:
So shall they be life to thy soul, and grace to thy neck.
Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble.
When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid: but thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet.
Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it cometh.
For the LORD will be thy confidence, and will keep thy foot from being taken.
Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thy hand to do it.
Say not to thy neighbor, Go, and come again, and to-morrow I will give; when thou hast it by thee.
Devise not evil against thy neighbor, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee.
Strive not with a man without cause, if he hath done thee no harm.
Envy thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways.
For the froward is abomination to the LORD: but his secret is with the righteous.
The curse of the LORD is in the house of the wicked: but he blesseth the habitation of the just.
Surely he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace to the lowly.
The wise shall inherit glory: but shame shall be the promotion of fools.
