Ask you of Yahweh rain in the time of the latter rain, \even of\ Yahweh who makes lightnings; and he will give them showers of rain, to everyone grass in the field.
For the teraphim have spoken vanity, and the diviners have seen a lie; and they have told false dreams, they comfort in vain: therefore they go their way like sheep, they are afflicted, because there is no shepherd.
My anger is kindled against the shepherds, and I will punish the male goats; for Yahweh of Hosts has visited his flock, the house of Judah, and will make them as his goodly horse in the battle.
From him shall come forth the corner-stone, from him the nail, from him the battle bow, from him every ruler together.
They shall be as mighty men, treading down \their enemies\ in the mire of the streets in the battle; and they shall fight, because Yahweh is with them; and the riders on horses shall be confounded.
I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph, and I will bring them back; for I have mercy on them; and they shall be as though I had not cast them off: for I am Yahweh their God, and I will hear them.
\They of\ Ephraim shall be like a mighty man, and their heart shall rejoice as through wine; yes, their children shall see it, and rejoice; their heart shall be glad in Yahweh.
I will hiss for them, and gather them; for I have redeemed them; and they shall increase as they have increased.
I will sow them among the peoples; and they shall remember me in far countries; and they shall live with their children, and shall return.
I will bring them again also out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon; and \place\ shall not be found for them.
He will pass through the sea of affliction, and will strike the waves in the sea, and all the depths of the Nile shall dry up; and the pride of Assyria shall be brought down, and the scepter of Egypt shall depart.
I will strengthen them in Yahweh; and they shall walk up and down in his name, says Yahweh.
