The burden of the word of Yahweh concerning Israel. \Thus\ says Yahweh, who stretches forth the heavens, and lays the foundation of the earth, and forms the spirit of man within him:
behold, I will make Jerusalem a cup of reeling to all the peoples round about, and on Judah also shall it be in the siege against Jerusalem.
It shall happen in that day, that I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all the peoples; all that burden themselves with it shall be sore wounded; and all the nations of the earth shall be gathered together against it.
In that day, says Yahweh, I will strike every horse with terror, and his rider with madness; and I will open my eyes on the house of Judah, and will strike every horse of the peoples with blindness.
The chieftains of Judah shall say in their heart, The inhabitants of Jerusalem are my strength in Yahweh of Hosts their God.
In that day will I make the chieftains of Judah like a pan of fire among wood, and like a flaming torch among sheaves; and they shall devour all the peoples round about, on the right hand and on the left; and \they of\ Jerusalem shall yet again dwell in their own place, even in Jerusalem.
Yahweh also shall save the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem be not magnified above Judah.
In that day shall Yahweh defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem: and he who is feeble among them at that day shall be as David; and the house of David shall be as God, as the angel of Yahweh before them.
It shall happen in that day, that I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem.
I will pour on the house of David, and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplication; and they shall look to me whom they have pierced; and they shall mourn for him, as one mourns for his only son, and shall be in bitterness for him, as one who is in bitterness for his firstborn.
In that day shall there be a great mourning in Jerusalem, as the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon.
The land shall mourn, every family apart; the family of the house of David apart, and their wives apart; the family of the house of Nathan apart, and their wives apart;
the family of the house of Levi apart, and their wives apart; the family of the Shimeites apart, and their wives apart;
all the families who remain, every family apart, and their wives apart.
