Behold, a day of Yahweh comes, when your spoil shall be divided in the midst of you.
For I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle; and the city shall be taken, and the houses rifled, and the women ravished; and half of the city shall go forth into captivity, and the residue of the people shall not be cut off from the city.
Then shall Yahweh go forth, and fight against those nations, as when he fought in the day of battle.
His feet shall stand in that day on the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east; and the Mount of Olives shall be cleft in the midst of it toward the east and toward the west, \and there shall be\ a very great valley; and half of the mountain shall remove toward the north, and half of it toward the south.
You shall flee by the valley of my mountains; for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azel; yes, you shall flee, like as you fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah; and Yahweh my God shall come, and all the holy ones with you.
It shall happen in that day, that there shall not be light; the bright ones shall withdraw themselves:
but it shall be one day which is known to Yahweh; not day, and not night; but it shall come to pass, that at evening time there shall be light.
It shall happen in that day, that living waters shall go out from Jerusalem; half of them toward the eastern sea, and half of them toward the western sea: in summer and in winter shall it be.
Yahweh shall be King over all the earth: in that day shall Yahweh be one, and his name one.
All the land shall be made like the Arabah, from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem; and she shall be lifted up, and shall dwell in her place, from Benjamin's gate to the place of the first gate, to the corner gate, and from the tower of Hananel to the king's wine-presses.
Men shall dwell therein, and there shall be no more curse; but Jerusalem shall dwell safely.
This shall be the plague with which Yahweh will strike all the peoples who have warred against Jerusalem: their flesh shall consume away while they stand on their feet, and their eyes shall consume away in their sockets, and their tongue shall consume away in their mouth.
It shall happen in that day, that a great tumult from Yahweh shall be among them; and they shall lay hold everyone on the hand of his neighbor, and his hand shall rise up against the hand of his neighbor.
Judah also shall fight at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all the nations round about shall be gathered together, gold, and silver, and clothing, in great abundance.
So shall be the plague of the horse, of the mule, of the camel, and of the donkey, and of all the animals that shall be in those camps, as that plague.
It shall happen, that everyone who is left of all the nations that came against Jerusalem shall go up from year to year to worship the King, Yahweh of Hosts, and to keep the feast of tents.
It shall be, that whoever of \all\ the families of the earth doesn't go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, Yahweh of Hosts, on them there shall be no rain.
If the family of Egypt doesn't go up, and doesn't come, neither \shall it be\ on them; there shall be the plague with which Yahweh will strike the nations that don't go up to keep the feast of tents.
This shall be the punishment of Egypt, and the punishment of all the nations that don't go up to keep the feast of tents.
In that day shall there be on the bells of the horses, HOLY TO YAHWEH; and the pots in Yahweh's house shall be like the bowls before the altar.
Yes, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holy to Yahweh of Hosts; and all those who sacrifice shall come and take of them, and boil therein: and in that day there shall be no more a Canaanite in the house of Yahweh of Hosts.
