Again I lifted up my eyes, and saw, and, behold, there came four chariots out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass.
In the first chariot were red horses; and in the second chariot black horses;
and in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot grizzled strong horses.
Then I answered the angel who talked with me, What are these, my lord?
The angel answered me, These are the four winds of the sky, which go forth from standing before the Lord of all the earth.
\The chariot\ in which are the black horses goes forth toward the north country; and the white went forth after them; and the grizzled went forth toward the south country.
The strong went forth, and sought to go that they might walk back and forth through the earth: and he said, Get you hence, walk back and forth through the earth. So they walked back and forth through the earth.
Then cried he to me, and spoke to me, saying, Behold, those who go toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country.
The word of Yahweh came to me, saying,
Take of them of the captivity, even of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah; and come you the same day, and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, where they are come from Babylon;
yes, take \of them\ silver and gold, and make crowns, and set them on the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest;
and speak to him, saying, Thus speaks Yahweh of Hosts, saying, Behold, the man whose name is the Branch: and he shall grow up out of his place; and he shall build the temple of Yahweh;
even he shall build the temple of Yahweh; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule on his throne; and he shall be a priest on his throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between them both.
The crowns shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in the temple of Yahweh.
Those who are far off shall come and build in the temple of Yahweh; and you shall know that Yahweh of hosts has sent me to you. \This\ shall happen, if you will diligently obey the voice of Yahweh your God.
