The burden of the word of Yahweh on the land of Hadrach, and Damascus \shall be\ its resting-place (for the eye of man and of all the tribes of Israel is toward Yahweh);
and Hamath, also, which borders thereon; Tyre and Sidon, because they are very wise.
Tyre did build herself a stronghold, and heaped up silver as the dust, and fine gold as the mire of the streets.
Behold, the Lord will dispossess her, and he will strike her power in the sea; and she shall be devoured with fire.
Ashkelon shall see it, and fear; Gaza also, and shall be sore pained; and Ekron, for her expectation shall be put to shame; and the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon shall not be inhabited.
A bastard shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.
I will take away his blood out of his mouth, and his abominations from between his teeth; and he also shall be a remnant for our God; and he shall be as a chieftain in Judah, and Ekron as a Jebusite.
I will encamp about my house against the army, that none pass through or return; and no oppressor shall pass through them any more: for now have I seen with my eyes.
Rejoice greatly, daughter of Zion; shout, daughter of Jerusalem: behold, your king comes to you; he is just, and having salvation; lowly, and riding on a donkey, even on a colt the foal of a donkey.
I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the horse from Jerusalem; and the battle bow shall be cut off; and he shall speak peace to the nations: and his dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth.
As for you also, because of the blood of your covenant I have set free your prisoners from the pit in which is no water.
Turn you to the stronghold, you prisoners of hope: even today do I declare that I will render double to you.
For I have bent Judah for me, I have filled the bow with Ephraim; and I will stir up your sons, Zion, against your sons, Greece, and will make you as the sword of a mighty man.
Yahweh shall be seen over them; and his arrow shall go forth as the lightning; and the Lord Yahweh will blow the trumpet, and will go with whirlwinds of the south.
Yahweh of Hosts will defend them; and they shall devour, and shall tread down the sling-stones; and they shall drink, and make a noise as through wine; and they shall be filled like bowls, like the corners of the altar.
Yahweh their God will save them in that day as the flock of his people; for \they shall be as\ the stones of a crown, lifted on high over his land.
For how great is his goodness, and how great is his beauty! grain shall make the young men flourish, and new wine the virgins.
