Paul, an apostle, (not from men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead;)
And all the brethren who are with me, to the churches of Galatia:
Grace be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ,
Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of God and our Father:
To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ, to another gospel:
Which is not another; but there are some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ.
But though we, or an angel from heaven, should preach any other gospel to you than that which we have preached to you, let him be accursed.
As we said before, so I say now again, If any man preacheth any other gospel to you than that ye have received, let him be accursed.
For do I now persuade men, or God? or do I seek to please men? for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ.
But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man.
For I neither received it from man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.
For ye have heard of my manner of life in time past in the Jews' religion, that beyond measure I persecuted the church of God, and wasted it;
And profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in my own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the traditions of my fathers.
But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb, and called me by his grace,
To reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the heathen; immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood:
Neither did I go to Jerusalem to them who were apostles before me: but I went into Arabia, and returned again to Damascus.
Then after three years I went to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days.
But I saw no other of the apostles, save James the Lord's brother.
Now the things which I write to you, behold, before God, I lie not.
Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia;
And was unknown by face to the churches of Judea which were in Christ:
But they had heard only, That he who persecuted us in times past, now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed.
And they glorified God in me.
