A Prayer of the afflicted, when he is overwhelmed, and poureth out his complaint before the LORD. 
Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry come to thee.
Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline thy ear to me: in the day when I call, answer me speedily.
For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth.
My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread.
By reason of the voice of my groaning, my bones cleave to my skin.
I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert.
I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top.
My enemies reproach me all the day; and they that are enraged against me are sworn against me.
For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping,
Because of thy indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down.
My days are like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered like grass.
But thou, O LORD, shalt endure for ever; and thy remembrance to all generations.
Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for the time to favor her, yes, the set time, is come.
For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favor the dust thereof.
So the heathen shall fear the name of the LORD: and all the kings of the earth thy glory.
When the LORD shall build up Zion, he will appear in his glory.
He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer.
This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the LORD.
For he hath looked down from the hight of his sanctuary; from heaven hath the LORD beheld the earth;
To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death;
To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem;
When the people are assembled, and the kingdoms, to serve the LORD.
He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days.
I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years are throughout all generations.
Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens are the work of thy hands.
They shall perish, but thou wilt endure: yes, all of them shall grow old like a garment; as a vesture wilt thou change them, and they shall be changed:
But thou art the same, and thy years will have no end.
The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee.
