O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his mercy endureth for ever.
Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy;
And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south.
They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in.
Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses.
And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness.
Such as sit in darkness and in the shades of death, being bound in affliction and iron;
Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the Most High:
Therefore he brought down their heart with labor; they fell down, and there was none to help.
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses.
He brought them out of darkness and the shades of death, and broke their bands asunder.
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron asunder.
Fools, because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted.
Their soul abhorreth all manner of food; and they draw near to the gates of death.
Then they cry to the LORD in their trouble, he saveth them out of their distresses.
He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions.
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing.
They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business on great waters;
These see the works of the LORD, and his wonders in the deep.
For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up its waves.
They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soul is melted because of trouble.
They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wit's end.
Then they cry to the LORD in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses.
He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves of the sea are still.
Then are they glad because they are quiet; so he bringeth them to their desired haven.
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.
He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the water-springs into dry ground;
A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell in it.
He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into water-springs.
And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation;
And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.
He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and suffereth not their cattle to decrease.
Again, they are diminished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow.
He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in the wilderness, where there is no way.
Yet he setteth the poor on high from affliction, and maketh him families like a flock.
The righteous shall see it, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall stop her mouth.
Whoever is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall understand the loving-kindness of the LORD.
