To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David. <BR>O LORD, thou hast searched me, and known me.
Thou knowest my down-sitting and my up rising, thou understandest my thought afar off.
Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.
For there is not a word on my tongue, but lo, O LORD, thou knowest it altogether.
Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thy hand upon me.
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain to it.
Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?
If I ascend into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there.
If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;
Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.
If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me.
Yes, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee.
For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb.
I will praise thee: for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: wonderful are thy works; and that my soul well knoweth.
My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret, and curiously formed in the lowest parts of the earth.
Thy eyes saw my substance, yet being imperfect; and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.
How precious also are thy thoughts to me, O God! how great is the sum of them!
If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee.
Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, ye bloody men.
For they speak against thee wickedly, and thy enemies take thy name in vain.
Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee?
I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them my enemies.
Search me, O God, and know my heart; try me, and know my thoughts:
And see if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.
