In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion.
Deliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline thy ear to me, and save me.
Be thou my strong habitation, to which I may continually resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock and my fortress.
Deliver me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
For thou art my hope, O Lord GOD: thou art my trust from my youth.
By thee have I been sustained from my birth: thou art he that brought me into life: my praise shall be continually of thee.
I am as a wonder to many; but thou art my strong refuge.
Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honor all the day.
Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength faileth.
For my enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together,
Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecute and take him; for there is none to deliver him.
O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help.
Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonor that seek my hurt.
But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and more.
My mouth shall show forth thy righteousness and thy salvation all the day; for I know not the numbers thereof.
I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD: I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only.
O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works.
Now also when I am old and gray-headed, O God, forsake me not; until I have shown thy strength to this generation, and thy power to every one that is to come.
Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high, who hast done great things: O God, who is like to thee!
Thou, who hast shown me great and severe troubles, wilt revive me again, and wilt bring me again from the depths of the earth.
Thou wilt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.
I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even thy truth, O my God: to thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel.
My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing to thee; and my soul, which thou hast redeemed.
My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long: for they are confounded, for they are brought to shame, that seek my hurt.
