Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellow-laborer,
And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellow-soldier, and to the church in thy house:
Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers,
Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast towards the Lord Jesus, and towards all saints;
That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus.
For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother.
Wherefore, though I might be very bold in Christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient.
Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds:
Who in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me:
Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, my own bowels:
Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered to me in the bonds of the gospel:
But without thy mind I would do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly.
For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldst receive him for ever;
Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more to thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?
If thou accountest me therefore a partner, receive him as myself.
If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee aught, put that on my account;
I Paul have written it with my own hand, I will repay it: although I do not say to thee that thou owest to me even thy own self besides.
Yes, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels in the Lord.
Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote to thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say.
But at the same time prepare me also a lodging; for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given to you.
There salute thee Epaphras, my fellow-prisoner in Christ Jesus;
Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellow-laborers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
