And when any will offer a meat-offering to the LORD, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense upon it.
And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests: and he shall take out of it his handful of its flour, and of its oil, with all its frankincense; and the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, to be an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD:
And the remnant of the meat-offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.
And if thou shalt bring an oblation of a meat-offering baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
And if thy oblation shall be a meat-offering baked in a pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.
Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil upon it: it is a meat-offering.
And if thy oblation shall be a meat-offering baked in the frying-pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
And thou shalt bring the meat-offering that is made of these things to the LORD: and when it is presented to the priest, he shall bring it to the altar.
And the priest shall take from the meat-offering a memorial of it, and shall burn it upon the altar: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD.
And that which is left of the meat-offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy, of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.
No meat-offering which ye shall bring to the LORD shall be made with leaven: for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any offering of the LORD made by fire.
As for the oblation of the first-fruits, ye shall offer them to the LORD: but they shall not be burnt on the altar for a sweet savor.
And every oblation of thy meat-offering shalt thou season with salt: neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meat-offering: with all thy offerings thou shalt offer salt.
And if thou shalt offer a meat-offering of thy first-fruits to the LORD, thou shalt offer for the meat-offering of thy first-fruits, green ears of corn dried by the fire, even corn beaten out of full ears.
And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense upon it: it is a meat-offering.
And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of its beaten corn, and part of its oil, with all its frankincense: it is an offering made by fire to the LORD.
