And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, Concerning the feasts of the LORD, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my feasts.
Six days shall work be done: but the seventh day is the sabbath of rest, a holy convocation: ye shall do no work in it: it is the sabbath of the LORD in all your dwellings.
These are the feasts of the LORD, holy convocations, which ye shall proclaim in their seasons.
In the fourteenth day of the first month at evening is the LORD'S passover.
And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread to the LORD, seven days ye must eat unleavened bread.
In the first day ye shall have a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work in it.
But ye shall offer an offering made by fire to the LORD seven days: in the seventh day is a holy convocation, ye shall do no servile work in it.
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When ye shall have come into the land which I give to you, and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye shall bring a sheaf of the first-fruits of your harvest to the priest:
And he shall wave the sheaf before the LORD, to be accepted for you: on the morrow after the sabbath the priest shall wave it.
And ye shall offer, that day when ye wave the sheaf, a he-lamb without blemish of the first year for a burnt-offering to the LORD.
And the meat-offering thereof shall be two tenth-parts of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire to the LORD for a sweet savor: and the drink-offering thereof shall be of wine, the fourth part of a hin.
And ye shall eat neither bread, nor parched corn, nor green ears, until the same day that ye have brought an offering to your God: It shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
And ye shall count to you from the morrow after the sabbath, from the day that ye brought the sheaf of the wave-offering; seven sabbaths shall be complete:
Even to the morrow after the seventh sabbath shall ye number fifty days; and ye shall offer a new meat-offering to the LORD.
Ye shall bring out of your habitations two wave-loaves of two tenth-parts: they shall be of fine flour, they shall be baked with leaven, they are the first-fruits to the LORD.
And ye shall offer with the bread seven lambs without blemish of the first year, and one young bullock, and two rams: they shall be for a burnt-offering to the LORD, with their meat-offering, and their drink offerings, even an offering made by fire of a sweet savor to the LORD.
Then ye shall sacrifice one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, and two lambs of the first year for a sacrifice of peace-offerings.
And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the first-fruits for a wave-offering before the LORD, with the two lambs: they shall be holy to the LORD for the priest.
And ye shall proclaim on the same day, that it may be a holy convocation to you: ye shall do no servile work in it. it shall be a statute for ever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not make clean riddance of the corners of thy field when thou reapest, neither shalt thou gather any gleaning of thy harvest: thou shalt leave them to the poor, and to the stranger: I am the LORD your God.
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, in the first day of the month, shall ye have a sabbath, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation.
Ye shall do no servile work in it; but ye shall offer an offering made by fire to the LORD.
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Also on the tenth day of this seventh month there shall be a day of atonement; it shall be a holy convocation to you, and ye shall afflict your souls, and offer an offering made by fire to the LORD.
And ye shall do no work in that same day; for it is a day of atonement, to make an atonement for you before the LORD your God.
For whatever soul it may be that shall not be afflicted in that same day, he shall be cut off from among his people.
And whatever soul it may be that doeth any work in that same day, the same soul will I destroy from among his people.
Ye shall do no manner of work. It shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
It shall be to you a sabbath of rest, and ye shall afflict your souls in the ninth day of the month at evening: from evening to evening shall ye celebrate your sabbath.
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, The fifteenth day of this seventh month shall be the feast of tabernacles for seven days to the LORD.
On the first day shall be a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work in it.
Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire to the LORD: on the eighth day shall be a holy convocation to you, and ye shall offer an offering made by fire to the LORD: it is a solemn assembly; and ye shall do no servile work in it.
These are the feasts of the LORD, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire to the LORD, a burnt-offering, and a meat-offering, a sacrifice, and drink-offerings, every thing upon its day:
Beside the sabbaths of the LORD, and beside your gifts, and beside all your vows, and beside all your free-will-offerings, which ye give to the LORD.
Also in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruit of the land, ye shall keep a feast to the LORD seven days: on the first day shall be a sabbath, and on the eighth day shall be a sabbath.
And ye shall take you on the first day the boughs of goodly trees, branches of palm-trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before the LORD your God seven days.
And ye shall keep it a feast to the LORD seven days in the year. It shall be a statute for ever in your generations; ye shall celebrate it in the seventh month.
Ye shall dwell in booths seven days: all that are Israelites born shall dwell in booths:
That your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.
And Moses declared to the children of Israel the feasts of the LORD.
