And if his oblation shall be a sacrifice of peace-offering, if he shall offer it of the herd, whether a male or female; he shall offer it without blemish before the LORD.
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.
And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace-offering, an offering made by fire to the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.
And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar, upon the burnt-sacrifice which is upon the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD.
And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace-offering to the LORD shall be of the flock, male or female; he shall offer it without blemish.
If he shall offer a lamb for his offering, then shall he offer it before the LORD.
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle the blood of it around upon the altar.
And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace-offering an offering made by fire to the LORD: its fat, and the whole rump, that shall he take off hard by the back-bone; and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, that shall he take away.
And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire to the LORD.
And if his offering shall be a goat, then he shall offer it before the LORD.
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle its blood upon the altar round about.
And he shall offer of it his offering, even an offering made by fire to the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, that shall he take away.
And the priest shall burn them upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire for a sweet savor: all the fat is the LORD'S.
It shall be a perpetual statute for your generations throughout all your dwellings, that ye eat neither fat nor blood.
