And Jehovah spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai in the  tent of meeting, on the first of the second month, in the  second year after their departure from the land of Egypt,  saying,
Take the sum of the whole assembly of the children of  Israel, after their families, according to their fathers`  houses, by the number of the names, every male, according to  their polls;
from twenty years and upward, all that go forth to military  service in Israel: ye shall number them according to their  hosts, thou and Aaron.
And with you there shall be a man for every tribe, a man who  is the head of his father`s house.
And these are the names of the men that shall stand with  you: for Reuben, Elizur the son of Shedeur;
for Simeon, Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai;
for Judah, Nahshon the son of Amminadab;
for Issachar, Nethaneel the son of Zuar;
for Zebulun, Eliab the son of Helon;
for the children of Joseph: for Ephraim, Elishama the son  of Ammihud; for Manasseh, Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur;
for Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gideoni;
for Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai;
for Asher, Pagiel the son of Ocran;
for Gad, Eliasaph the son of Deuel;
for Naphtali, Ahira the son of Enan.
These were those summoned of the assembly, princes of the  tribes of their fathers, the heads of the thousands of Israel.
And Moses and Aaron took these men who are expressed by  their names,
and gathered the whole assembly together on the first of  the second month. And they declared their pedigrees after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, by the number of  the names, from twenty years old and upward, according to their  polls.
As Jehovah had commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the  wilderness of Sinai.
And the sons of Reuben, Israel`s eldest son, their  generations, after their families, according to their fathers`  houses, by the number of the names, according to their polls,  every male from twenty years old and upward, all that went  forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Reuben,  were forty-six thousand five hundred.
Of the sons of Simeon: their generations, after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, those that were  numbered of them, by the number of the names, according to  their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all  that went forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Simeon,  were fifty-nine thousand three hundred.
Of the sons of Gad: their generations, after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, by the number of  the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that went  forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Gad, were  forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty.
Of the sons of Judah: their generations, after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, by the number of  the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that went  forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Judah,  were seventy-four thousand six hundred.
Of the sons of Issachar: their generations, after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, by the number of  the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that went  forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Issachar,  were fifty-four thousand four hundred.
Of the sons of Zebulun: their generations, after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, by the number of  the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that went  forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Zebulun,  were fifty-seven thousand four hundred.
Of the sons of Joseph: of the children of Ephraim: their  generations, after their families, according to their fathers`  houses, by the number of the names, from twenty years old and  upward, all that went forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Ephraim,  were forty thousand five hundred.
Of the children of Manasseh: their generations, after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, by the number of  the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that went  forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Manasseh,  were thirty-two thousand two hundred.
Of the sons of Benjamin: their generations, after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, by the number of  the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that went  forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Benjamin,  were thirty-five thousand four hundred.
Of the sons of Dan: their generations, after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, by the number of  the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that went  forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Dan, were  sixty-two thousand seven hundred.
Of the sons of Asher: their generations, after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, by the number of  the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that went  forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Asher,  were forty-one thousand five hundred.
Of the sons of Naphtali: their generations, after their  families, according to their fathers` houses, by the number of  the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that went  forth to military service:
those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Naphtali,  were fifty-three thousand four hundred.
These are those that were numbered, whom Moses and Aaron  numbered, and the princes of Israel, the twelve men: each one  was for the house of his fathers.
And all those that were numbered of the children of Israel,  according to their fathers` houses, from twenty years old and  upward, all that went forth to military service in Israel,
all they that were numbered were six hundred and three  thousand five hundred and fifty.
But the Levites after the tribe of their fathers were not  numbered among them.
For Jehovah had spoken to Moses, saying,
Only thou shalt not number the tribe of Levi, neither take  the sum of them among the children of Israel.
But thou, appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of  testimony, and over all the vessels thereof, and over all  things that belong to it: they shall bear the tabernacle, and  all its vessels; and they shall serve it, and round about the  tabernacle shall they encamp;
and when the tabernacle setteth forward, the Levites shall  take it down; and when the tabernacle encampeth, the Levites  shall set it up; and the stranger that cometh near shall be put  to death.
And the children of Israel shall encamp every man in his  camp, and every man by his own standard, according to their  hosts;
but the Levites shall encamp round about the tabernacle of  testimony, that there come not wrath upon the assembly of the  children of Israel; and the Levites shall keep the charge of  the tabernacle of testimony.
And the children of Israel did so; according to all that  Jehovah had commanded Moses, so did they.
