And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Send thou men, that they may search out the land of Canaan,  which I give unto the children of Israel. Ye shall send a man  of every tribe of his fathers, each a prince among them.
And Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran: according  to the commandment of Jehovah, all of them heads of the  children of Israel.
And these are their names: for the tribe of Reuben, Shammua  the son of Zaccur;
for the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori;
for the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh;
for the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph;
for the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Nun;
for the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu;
for the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi;
for the tribe of Joseph, for the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi  the son of Susi;
for the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli;
for the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael;
for the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi;
for the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to search  out the land. And Moses called Hoshea the son of Nun, Jehoshua.
And Moses sent them to search out the land of Canaan, and  said to them, Go up this way by the south and go up into the  hill-country,
and ye shall see the land, what it is; and the people that  dwell in it, whether they are strong or weak, few or many;
and what the land is that they dwell in, whether it is  good or bad; and what cities they are that they dwell in,  whether in camps, or in strongholds;
and what the land is, whether it is fat or lean, whether  there are trees in it, or not. And take courage, and bring of  the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the first  grapes.
And they went up, and searched out the land from the  wilderness of Zin to Rehob, where one comes towards Hamath.
And they went up by the south, and came to Hebron; and  Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were there.  Now Hebron had been built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.
And they came as far as the valley of Eshcol, and cut down  thence a branch with one bunch of grapes, and they bore it  between two upon a pole; and \they brought\ of the  pomegranates, and of the figs.
That place was called the valley of Eshcol, because of the  grapes which the children of Israel had cut down there.
And they returned from searching out the land after forty  days.
And they came, and went to Moses and to Aaron, and to the  whole assembly of the children of Israel, to the wilderness of  Paran, to Kadesh; and brought back word to them, and to the  whole assembly; and shewed them the fruit of the land.
And they told him, and said, We came to the land to which  thou didst send us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey;  and this is the fruit of it.
Only, the people are strong that dwell in the land, and  the cities are walled, very great; moreover we saw the children  of Anak there.
Amalek dwells in the land of the south; and the Hittites,  and the Jebusites, and the Amorites dwell in the hill-country;  and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the side of the  Jordan.
And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let  us go up boldly and possess it, for we are well able to do it.
But the men that went up with him said, We are not able to  go up against the people, for they are stronger than we.
And they brought to the children of Israel an evil report  of the land which they had searched out, saying, The land,  which we have passed through to search it out, is a land that  eateth up its inhabitants; and all the people that we have seen  in it are men of great stature;
and there have we seen giants -- the sons of Anak are of  the giants -- and we were in our sight as grasshoppers, and so  we were also in their sight.
