And the whole assembly lifted up their voice, and cried;  and the people wept that night.
And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and  against Aaron; and the whole assembly said to them, Would that  we had died in the land of Egypt! or in this wilderness would  that we had died!
And why is Jehovah bringing us to this land that we may  fall by the sword, that our wives and our little ones may  become a prey? Is it not better for us to return to Egypt?
And they said one to another, Let us make a captain, and  let us return to Egypt.
Then Moses and Aaron fell upon their faces before the whole  congregation of the assembly of the children of Israel.
And Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh,  of them that searched out the land, rent their garments.
And they spoke to the whole assembly of the children of  Israel, saying, The land, which we passed through to search it  out, is a very, very good land.
If Jehovah delight in us, he will bring us into this land,  and give it us, a land that flows with milk and honey;
only rebel not against Jehovah; and fear not the people of  the land; for they shall be our food. Their defence is departed  from them, and Jehovah is with us: fear them not.
And the whole assembly said that they should be stoned  with stones. And the glory of Jehovah appeared in the tent of  meeting to all the children of Israel.
And Jehovah said to Moses, How long will this people  despise me? and how long will they not believe me, for all the  signs which I have done among them?
I will smite them with the pestilence, and destroy them,  and will make of thee a nation greater and mightier than they.
And Moses said to Jehovah, Then the Egyptians will hear  it; for in thy might thou broughtest up this people from the  midst of them;
and they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land,  \who\ have heard that thou, Jehovah, art in the midst of this  people, that thou, Jehovah, lettest thyself be seen eye to eye,  and that thy cloud standeth over them, and that thou goest  before them, in a pillar of cloud by day, and in a pillar of  fire by night;
if thou now slayest this people as one man, then the  nations that have heard thy fame will speak, saying,
Because Jehovah was not able to bring this people into the  land that he had sworn unto them, he has therefore slain them  in the wilderness.
And now, I beseech thee, let the power of the Lord be  great, according as thou hast spoken, saying,
Jehovah is slow to anger, and abundant in goodness,  forgiving iniquity and transgression, but by no means clearing  \the guilty\, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the  children, upon the third and fourth \generation\.
Pardon, I beseech thee, the iniquity of this people  according to the greatness of thy loving-kindness, and as thou  hast forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now.
And Jehovah said, I have pardoned according to thy word.
But as surely as I live, all the earth shall be filled  with the glory of Jehovah!
for all those men who have seen my glory, and my signs,  which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and have tempted me  these ten times, and have not hearkened to my voice,
shall in no wise see the land which I did swear unto their  fathers: none of them that despised me shall see it.
But my servant Caleb, because he hath another spirit in  him, and hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land  whereinto he came; and his seed shall possess it.
(Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwell in the  valley.) To-morrow turn you, and take your journey into the  wilderness, on the way to the Red sea.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
How long \shall I bear\ with this evil assembly, which  murmur against me? I have heard the murmurings of the children  of Israel, which they murmur against me.
Say unto them, As surely as I live, saith Jehovah, if I do  not do unto you as ye have spoken in mine ears!
In this wilderness shall your carcases fall; and all that  were numbered of you, according to your whole number from  twenty years old and upwards, who have murmured against me,
shall in no wise come into the land, concerning which I  have lifted up my hand to make you dwell in it; save Caleb the  son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.
But your little ones, of whom ye said they should be a  prey, them will I bring in, and they shall know the land that  ye have despised.
And as to you, your carcases shall fall in this  wilderness.
And your children shall wander in the wilderness forty  years, and bear your whoredoms, until your carcases be wasted  in the wilderness.
After the number of the days in which ye have searched out  the land, forty days, each day for a year shall ye bear your  iniquities forty years, and ye shall know mine estrangement  \from you\.
I Jehovah have spoken; I will surely do it unto all this  evil assembly which have gathered together against me! in this  wilderness they shall be consumed, and there they shall die.
And the men whom Moses had sent to search out the land,  who returned, and made the whole assembly to murmur against  him, by bringing up an evil report upon the land,
even those men who had brought up an evil report upon the  land, died by a plague before Jehovah.
But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh,  lived still of the men that had gone to search out the land.
And Moses told all these sayings to all the children of  Israel; then the people mourned greatly.
And they rose up early in the morning, and went up to the  hill-top, saying, Here are we, and we will go up to the place  of which Jehovah has spoken; for we have sinned.
And Moses said, Why now do ye transgress the commandment  of Jehovah? but it shall not prosper!
Go not up, for Jehovah is not among you; that ye be not  smitten before your enemies;
for the Amalekites and the Canaanites are there before  you, and ye shall fall by the sword; for as ye have turned away  from Jehovah, Jehovah will not be with you.
Yet they presumed to go up to the hill-top; but the ark of  the covenant of Jehovah, and Moses, did not depart from the  midst of the camp.
And the Amalekites and the Canaanites who dwelt on that  hill, came down and smote them, and cut them to pieces, as far  as Hormah.
