And Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of  Levi, made bold, and \with him\ Dathan and Abiram, the sons of  Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, the sons of Reuben;
and they rose up against Moses, with two hundred and fifty  men of the children of Israel, princes of the assembly,  summoned to the council, men of renown;
and they gathered themselves together against Moses and  against Aaron, and said to them, It is enough; for all the  assembly, all of them are holy, and Jehovah is among them; and  why do ye lift up yourselves above the congregation of Jehovah?
When Moses heard this, he fell on his face.
And he spoke to Korah and to all his band, saying, Even  to-morrow will Jehovah make known who is his, and who is holy;  and he will cause him to come near to him; and him whom he has  chosen, him will he cause to come near to him.
This do: take you censers, Korah, and all his band,
and put fire therein, and lay incense thereon before  Jehovah to-morrow; and it shall be that the man whom Jehovah  doth choose, he shall be holy. It is enough, ye sons of Levi!
And Moses said to Korah, Hear, I pray you, ye sons of Levi!
Is it too little for you, that the God of Israel has  separated you from the assembly of Israel, to bring you near to  himself to do the work of the tabernacle of Jehovah, and to  stand before the assembly to minister to them?
-- that he has brought thee near, and all thy brethren the  sons of Levi with thee; and seek ye now the priesthood also?
For which cause thou and all thy band are banded together  against Jehovah; and Aaron, who is he that ye murmur against  him?
And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of  Eliab; but they said, We will not come up!
Is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a  land flowing with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness,  that thou must make thyself altogether a ruler over us?
Moreover, thou hast not brought us into a land flowing  with milk and honey, or given us inheritance of fields and  vineyards: wilt thou put out the eyes of these men? we will not  come up!
Then Moses was very wroth, and said to Jehovah, Have no  regard to their oblation: not one ass have I taken from them,  neither have I hurt one of them.
And Moses said to Korah, Be thou and all thy band before  Jehovah, thou, and they, and Aaron, to-morrow.
And take each his censer, and put incense thereon, and  present before Jehovah every man his censer, two hundred and  fifty censers; and thou, and Aaron, each his censer.
And they took each his censer, and put fire on them, and  laid incense thereon, and stood before the entrance to the tent  of meeting, as well as Moses and Aaron.
And Korah gathered the whole assembly against them to the  entrance of the tent of meeting. And the glory of Jehovah  appeared to all the assembly.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Separate yourselves from the midst of this assembly, and I  will consume them in a moment.
And they fell on their faces, and said, O ùGod, the God of  the spirits of all flesh! shall *one* man sin, and wilt thou be  wroth with the whole assembly?
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak unto the assembly, saying, Get you up from about the  habitation of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.
And Moses rose up and went to Dathan and Abiram; and the  elders of Israel followed him.
And he spoke to the assembly, saying, Depart, I pray you,  from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of  theirs, lest ye perish in all their sins.
And they got up from the habitation of Koran, Dathan, and  Abiram, on every side. And Dathan and Abiram came out, and  stood in the entrance of their tents, and their wives, and  their sons, and their little ones.
And Moses said, Hereby ye shall know that Jehovah has sent  me to do all these deeds, for they are not out of my own heart:
if these men die as all men die, and are visited with the  visitation of all men, Jehovah has not sent me;
but if Jehovah make a new thing, and the ground open its  mouth, and swallow them up, and all that they have, and they go  down alive into Sheol, then ye shall know that these men have  despised Jehovah.
And it came to pass when he had ended speaking all these  words, that the ground clave apart that was under them.
And the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up, and  their households, and all the men that belonged to Korah, and  all their property.
And they went down, they and all that they had, alive into  Sheol, and the earth covered them; and they perished from among  the congregation.
And all Israel that were round about them fled at their  cry; for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up!
And there came out a fire from Jehovah, and consumed the  two hundred and fifty men that had presented incense.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, that he take  up the censers out of the burning; and scatter the fire afar;  for they are hallowed,
the censers of these sinners who have forfeited their  life; and they shall make them into broad plates for the  covering of the altar; for they presented them before Jehovah,  therefore they are hallowed; and they shall be a sign unto the  children of Israel.
And Eleazar the priest took the copper censers, which they  that were burnt had presented; and they were made broad plates  for a covering of the altar:
as a memorial to the children of Israel, that no stranger  who is not of the seed of Aaron come near to burn incense  before Jehovah, that he be not as Korah, and as his band, -- as  Jehovah had said to him through Moses.
And the whole assembly of the children of Israel murmured  on the morrow against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye have  killed the people of Jehovah.
And it came to pass, when the assembly was gathered  together against Moses and against Aaron, that they looked  toward the tent of meeting, and behold, the cloud covered it,  and the glory of Jehovah appeared.
And Moses and Aaron went before the tent of meeting.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Get you up from the midst of this assembly, and I will  consume them in a moment. And they fell on their faces.
And Moses said to Aaron, Take the censer, and put fire  thereon from off the altar, and lay on incense, and carry it  quickly to the assembly, and make atonement for them; for there  is wrath gone out from Jehovah: the plague is begun.
And Aaron took as Moses had said, and ran into the midst  of the congregation; and behold, the plague had begun among the  people; and he put on incense, and made atonement for the  people.
And he stood between the dead and the living; and the  plague was stayed.
Now they that died in the plague were fourteen thousand  seven hundred, besides them that had died because of the matter  of Korah.
And Aaron returned to Moses to the entrance of the tent of  meeting; and the plague was stayed.
