And Jehovah said to Aaron, Thou and thy sons and thy  father`s house with thee shall bear the iniquity of the  sanctuary; and thou and thy sons with thee shall bear the  iniquity of your priesthood.
And thy brethren also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of thy  father, bring near with thee, that they may unite with thee,  and minister unto thee; but thou and thy sons with thee \shall  serve\ before the tent of the testimony.
And they shall keep thy charge, and the charge of the whole  tent: only they shall not come near to the vessels of the  sanctuary and to the altar, that they may not die, and you as  well as they.
And they shall unite with thee, and keep the charge of the  tent of meeting, for all the service of the tent; and no  stranger shall come near to you.
And ye shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the  charge of the altar; that there come no wrath any more upon the  children of Israel.
And I, behold, I have taken your brethren, the Levites,  from among the children of Israel; to you are they given as a  gift for Jehovah to perform the service of the tent of meeting.
But thou and thy sons with thee shall attend to your  priesthood for all that concerneth the altar, and for that  which is inside the veil; and ye shall perform the service: I  give you your priesthood as a service of gift, and the stranger  that cometh near shall be put to death.
And Jehovah spoke to Aaron, And I, behold, I have given  thee the charge of my heave-offerings, of all the hallowed  things of the children of Israel; to thee have I given them,  because of the anointing, and to thy sons by an everlasting  statute.
This shall be thine of the most holy things, \reserved\  from the fire: every offering of theirs, of all their  oblations, and of all their sin-offerings, and of all their  trespass-offerings, which they render unto me, it is most holy  for thee and for thy sons.
As most holy shalt thou eat it: every male shall eat it;  it shall be holy unto thee.
And this shall be thine: the heave-offering of their gift,  with all the wave-offerings of the children of Israel; I have  given them unto thee, and to thy sons and to thy daughters with  thee, by an everlasting statute; every one that is clean in thy  house shall eat of it.
All the best of the oil, and all the best of the new wine,  and of the wheat, the firstfruits of them which they give to  Jehovah, have I given thee.
The first ripe of everything that is in their land, which  they shall bring to Jehovah, shall be thine; every one that is  clean in thy house shall eat of it.
Every devoted thing in Israel shall be thine.
Everything that breaketh open the womb of all flesh, which  they present to Jehovah, of men or of beasts, shall be thine;  nevertheless the firstborn of man shalt thou in any case  ransom, and the firstborn of unclean beasts shalt thou ransom.
And those that are to be ransomed from a month old shalt  thou ransom, according to thy valuation, for the money of five  shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty  gerahs.
But the firstborn of a cow, or the firstborn of a sheep,  or the firstborn of a goat, thou shalt not ransom: they are  holy. Thou shalt sprinkle their blood on the altar, and their  fat shalt thou burn as an offering by fire for a sweet odour to  Jehovah.
And their flesh shall be thine; as the wave-breast and as  the right shoulder shall it be thine.
All the heave-offerings of the holy things, which the  children of Israel offer to Jehovah, have I given thee, and to  thy sons and to thy daughters with thee, by an everlasting  statute: it shall be an everlasting covenant of salt before  Jehovah unto thee and thy seed with thee.
And Jehovah said to Aaron, In their land thou shalt have  no inheritance, neither shalt thou have any portion among them:  I am thy portion and thine inheritance among the children of  Israel.
And to the children of Levi, behold, I have given all the  tithes in Israel for an inheritance, for their service which  they perform, the service of the tent of meeting.
Neither shall the children of Israel henceforth come near  the tent of meeting, to bear sin and die.
But the Levite, he shall perform the service of the tent  of meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity: it is an  everlasting statute throughout your generations. And among the  children of Israel shall they possess no inheritance;
for I have given for an inheritance to the Levites the  tithes of the children of Israel, which they offer as a  heave-offering to Jehovah; therefore I have said of them, They  shall possess no inheritance among the children of Israel.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
And to the Levites shalt thou speak, and say unto them,  When ye take of the children of Israel the tithes which I have  given you from them for your inheritance, then ye shall offer a  heave-offering from it for Jehovah, the tenth of the tithe.
And your heave-offering shall be reckoned unto you, as the  corn from the threshing-floor, and as the fulness of the  winepress.
Thus ye also shall offer Jehovah`s heave-offering of all  your tithes, which ye take of the children of Israel; and ye  shall give thereof Jehovah`s heave-offering to Aaron the  priest.
Out of all that is given you ye shall offer the whole  heave-offering of Jehovah, -- of all the best thereof the  hallowed part thereof.
And thou shalt say unto them, When ye heave the best  thereof from it, then it shall be counted unto the Levites as  produce of the threshing-floor, and as produce of the  winepress.
And ye shall eat it in every place, ye and your  households; for it is your reward for your service in the tent  of meeting.
And ye shall bear no sin by reason of it, if ye heave from  it the best of it; and ye shall not profane the holy things of  the children of Israel, lest ye die.
