And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
This is the statute of the law which Jehovah hath  commanded, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, that they  bring thee a red heifer without blemish, wherein is no defect,  and upon which never came yoke;
and ye shall give it to Eleazar the priest, and he shall  bring it outside the camp, and one shall slaughter it before  him.
And Eleazar the priest shall take of its blood with his  finger, and shall sprinkle of its blood directly before the  tent of meeting seven times.
And one shall burn the heifer before his eyes; its skin and  its flesh, and its blood, with its dung, shall he burn.
And the priest shall take cedar-wood, and hyssop, and  scarlet, and cast them into the midst of the burning of the  heifer.
And the priest shall wash his garments, and he shall bathe  his flesh in water, and afterwards he shall come into the camp;  and the priest shall be unclean until the even;
and he that hath burned it shall wash his garments in  water, and bathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until  the even.
And a clean man shall gather the ashes of the heifer, and  deposit them outside the camp in a clean place, and it shall be  kept for the assembly of the children of Israel for a water of  separation: it is a purification for sin.
And he that hath gathered the ashes of the heifer shall  wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even. And it shall  be unto the children of Israel, and unto the stranger that  sojourneth among them, an everlasting statute.
He that toucheth a dead person, any dead body of a man,  shall be unclean seven days.
He shall purify himself with it on the third day, and on  the seventh day he shall be clean; but if he purify not himself  the third day, then the seventh day he shall not be clean.
Whoever toucheth a dead person, the dead body of a man  that is dead, and purifieth not himself, defileth the  tabernacle of Jehovah; and that soul shall be cut off from  Israel; for the water of separation was not sprinkled upon him:  he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yet upon him.
This is the law, when a man dieth in a tent: every one  that cometh into the tent, and all that is in the tent, shall  be unclean seven days.
And every open vessel, which hath no covering bound upon  it, shall be unclean.
And every one that toucheth one that is slain with a sword  in the open fields, or a dead person, or the bone of a man, or  a grave, shall be unclean seven days.
And they shall take for the unclean of the ashes of the  purification-offering that hath been burned, and shall put  running water thereon in a vessel;
and a clean man shall take hyssop, and dip it in the  water, and sprinkle it on the tent, and upon all the utensils,  and upon the persons that were there, and upon him that hath  touched the bone, or the one slain, or the dead person, or the  grave;
and the clean shall sprinkle it on the unclean on the  third day, and on the seventh day; and he shall purify him on  the seventh day; and he shall wash his garments, and bathe  himself in water, and shall be clean at even.
And the man that is unclean, and doth not purify himself,  that soul shall be cut off from the midst of the congregation,  for he hath defiled the sanctuary of Jehovah: the water of  separation hath not been sprinkled on him: he is unclean.
And it shall be an everlasting statute unto them. And he  that sprinkleth the water of separation shall wash his  garments, and he that toucheth the water of separation shall be  unclean until even.
And whatever the unclean person toucheth shall be unclean;  and the soul that toucheth it shall be unclean until even.
