And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
The children of Israel shall encamp every one by his  standard, with the ensign of their father`s house; round about  the tent of meeting, afar off, opposite to it shall they  encamp.
And \for\ those encamping eastward toward the sun-rising  \there shall be\ the standard of the camp of Judah according to  their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Judah shall be  Nahshon the son of Amminadab;
and his host, even those that were numbered of them, were  seventy-four thousand six hundred.
And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of  Issachar; and the prince of the sons of Issachar shall be  Nethaneel the son of Zuar;
and his host, even those that were numbered thereof,  fifty-four thousand four hundred.
\With them shall be\ the tribe of Zebulun; and the prince of  the sons of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon;
and his host, even those that were numbered thereof,  fifty-seven thousand four hundred.
All that were numbered of the camp of Judah were a hundred  and eighty-six thousand four hundred, according to their hosts.  They shall set forth first.
The standard of the camp of Reuben shall be southward  according to their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Reuben  shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur;
and his host, even those that were numbered thereof,  forty-six thousand five hundred.
And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Simeon;  and the prince of the sons of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son  of Zurishaddai;
and his host, even those that were numbered of them,  fifty-nine thousand three hundred.
And \with them shall be\ the tribe of Gad; and the prince  of the sons of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel;
and his host, even those that were numbered of them,  forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty.
All that were numbered of the camp of Reuben were a hundred  and fifty-one thousand four hundred and fifty, according to  their hosts. And they shall set forth second.
And the tent of meeting shall set forth, the camp of the  Levites in the midst of the camps; as they encamp, so shall  they set forth, every man in his place, according to their  standards.
The standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their  hosts shall be westward; and the prince of the sons of Ephraim  shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud;
and his host, even those that were numbered of them, forty  thousand five hundred.
And by him shall be the tribe of Manasseh; and the prince  of the sons of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur;
and his host, even those that were numbered of them,  thirty-two thousand two hundred.
And \with them shall be\ the tribe of Benjamin; and the  prince of the sons of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of  Gideoni;
and his host, even those that were numbered of them,  thirty-five thousand four hundred.
All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were a  hundred and eight thousand one hundred, according to their  hosts. And they shall set forth third.
The standard of the camp of Dan shall be northward  according to their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Dan  shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai;
and his host, even those that were numbered of them,  sixty-two thousand seven hundred.
And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Asher;  and the prince of the sons of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of  Ocran;
and his host, even those that were numbered of them,  forty-one thousand five hundred.
And \with them shall be\ the tribe of Naphtali; and the  prince of the sons of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan;
and his host, even those that were numbered of them,  fifty-three thousand four hundred.
All that were numbered of the camp of Dan were a hundred  and fifty-seven thousand six hundred. They shall set forth last  according to their standards.
These are those that were numbered of the children of  Israel, according to their fathers` houses: all those that were  numbered of the camps, according to their hosts, were six  hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty.
But the Levites were not numbered among the children of  Israel; as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And the children of Israel did according to all that  Jehovah had commanded Moses: so they encamped according to  their standards, and so they journeyed, every one according to  their families, according to their fathers` houses.
