And the Canaanite king of Arad, who dwelt in the south,  heard that Israel came by the way of Atharim, and he fought  against Israel, and took some of them prisoners.
Then Israel vowed a vow to Jehovah, and said, If thou give  this people wholly into my hand, then I will utterly destroy  their cities.
And Jehovah listened to the voice of Israel, and delivered  up the Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them, and their  cities. And they called the name of the place Hormah.
And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of the Red  sea, to go round the land of Edom; and the soul of the people  became impatient on the way;
and the people spoke against God, and against Moses, Why  have ye brought us up out of Egypt that we should die in the  wilderness? for there is no bread, and no water, and our soul  loathes this light bread.
Then Jehovah sent fiery serpents among the people, which  bit the people; and much people of Israel died.
And the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, in  that we have spoken against Jehovah, and against thee: pray to  Jehovah that he take away the serpents from us. And Moses  prayed for the people.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Make thee a fiery \serpent\, and  set it upon a pole; and it shall come to pass, that every one  that is bitten, and looketh upon it, shall live.
And Moses made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a pole;  and it came to pass, if a serpent had bitten any man, and he  beheld the serpent of brass, he lived.
And the children of Israel journeyed, and encamped in  Oboth.
And they removed from Oboth, and encamped at Ijim-Abarim,  in the wilderness that is before Moab, toward the sun-rising.
From thence they removed, and encamped at the torrent  Zered.
From thence they removed, and encamped on the other side  of the Arnon, which is in the wilderness that comes out of the  border of the Amorites. For the Arnon is the border of Moab,  between Moab and the Amorites.
Therefore it is said in the book of the wars of Jehovah,  Vaheb in Suphah, and the brooks of Arnon;
And the stream of the brooks which turneth to the dwelling  of Ar, And inclineth toward the border of Moab.
And from thence to Beer: that is the well of which Jehovah  spoke to Moses, Assemble the people, and I will give them  water.
Then Israel sang this song, Rise up, well! sing unto it:
Well which princes digged, which the nobles of the people  hollowed out at \the word of\ the lawgiver, with their staves.  And from the wilderness \they went\ to Mattanah;
and from Mattanah to Nahaliel; and from Nahaliel to  Bamoth;
and from Bamoth to the valley that is in the fields of  Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looks over the surface of the  waste.
And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites,  saying,
Let us pass through thy land; we will not turn into the  fields, or into the vineyards; we will not drink water out of  the wells; on the king`s road will we go until we have passed  thy border.
But Sihon would not suffer Israel to go through his  border; and Sihon gathered all his people, and went out against  Israel into the wilderness, and came to Jahaz, and fought  against Israel.
And Israel smote him with the edge of the sword, and took  possession of his land from the Arnon to the Jabbok, even unto  the children of Ammon; for the border of the children of Ammon  was strong.
And Israel took all these cities, and Israel dwelt in all  the cities of the Amorites, at Heshbon, and in all its  dependent villages.
For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the  Amorites; and he had fought against the former king of Moab,  and had taken all his land out of his hand, even unto the  Arnon.
Therefore the poets say, Come to Heshbon; let the city of  Sihon be built and established.
For there went forth fire from Heshbon, a flame from the  city of Sihon; It consumed Ar of Moab, the lords of the high  places of the Arnon.
Woe to thee, Moab! thou art undone, people of Chemosh: He  gave his sons that had escaped, and his daughters into  captivity to Sihon the king of the Amorites.
And we have shot at them; Heshbon is perished even unto  Dibon; and we have laid \them\ waste even unto Nophah, which  reacheth unto Medeba.
And Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites.
And Moses sent to spy out Jaazer, and they took its  dependent villages, and he dispossessed the Amorites that were  there.
And they turned and went up by the way to Bashan; and Og  the king of Bashan went out against them, he and all his  people, for battle to Edrei.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Fear him not! for into thy hand  have I given him, and all his people, and his land; and thou  shalt do to him as thou didst unto Sihon the king of the  Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon.
And they smote him, and his sons, and all his people, so  that they left him none remaining, and took possession of his  land.
