And Balaam said to Balak, Build me here seven altars, and  prepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams.
And Balak did as Balaam had said; and Balak and Balaam  offered up a bullock and a ram on \each\ altar.
And Balaam said to Balak, Stand by thy burnt-offering, and  I will go; perhaps Jehovah will come to meet me; and whatever  he shews me I will tell thee. And he went to a hill.
And God met Balaam; and \Balaam\ said to him, I have  disposed seven altars, and have offered up a bullock and a ram  upon \each\ altar.
And Jehovah put a word in Balaam`s mouth, and said, Return  to Balak, and thus shalt thou speak.
And he returned to him, and behold, he was standing by his  burnt-offering, he, and all the princes of Moab.
And he took up his parable, and said, Balak the king of  Moab hath brought me from Aram, from the mountains of the east:  Come, curse me Jacob, and come, denounce Israel!
How shall I curse whom ùGod hath not cursed? or how shall I  denounce whom Jehovah doth not denounce?
For from the top of the rocks I see him, and from the hills  I behold him: Lo, \it is\ a people that shall dwell alone and  shall not be reckoned among the nations.
Who can count the dust of Jacob, and the number of the  fourth part of Israel? Let my soul die the death of the  righteous, and let my end be like his!
And Balak said to Balaam, What hast thou done to me? I  took thee to curse mine enemies, and behold, thou hast blessed  them altogether.
And he answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak  that which Jehovah puts in my mouth?
And Balak said to him, Come, I pray thee, with me to  another place, from whence thou wilt see them; thou shalt see  only the extremity of them and shalt not see them all, and  curse me them from thence.
And he took him to the watchmen`s field, to the top of  Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered up a bullock and a  ram on \each\ altar.
And \Balaam\ said to Balak, Stand here by thy  burnt-offering, and I will go to meet yonder.
And Jehovah met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and  said, Return to Balak, and thus shalt thou speak.
And he came to him, and behold, he was standing by his  burnt-offering, and the princes of Moab with him; and Balak  said to him, What has Jehovah spoken?
Then he took up his parable and said, Rise up, Balak, and  hear! hearken unto me, son of Zippor!
ùGod is not a man, that he should lie; neither a son of  man, that he should repent. Shall he say and not do? and shall  he speak and not make it good?
Behold, I have received \mission\ to bless; and he hath  blessed, and I cannot reverse it.
He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob, neither hath he seen  wrong in Israel; Jehovah his God is with him, and the shout of  a king is in his midst.
ùGod brought him out of Egypt; he hath as it were the  strength of a buffalo.
For there is no enchantment against Jacob, neither is  there any divination against Israel. At this time it shall be  said of Jacob and of Israel, What hath ùGod wrought!
Lo, the people will rise up as a lioness, and lift himself  up as a lion. He shall not lie down until he have eaten the  prey and drunk the blood of the slain.
And Balak said to Balaam, Neither curse them at all, nor  bless them at all.
And Balaam answered and said to Balak, Did I not tell  thee, saying, All that Jehovah shall speak, that will I do?
And Balak said to Balaam, Come, I pray thee, I will bring  thee to another place; perhaps it will be right in the sight of  God that thou curse me them from thence.
And Balak brought Balaam to the top of Peor, which looks  over the surface of the waste.
And Balaam said to Balak, Build me here seven altars, and  prepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams.
And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered up a bullock  and a ram on each altar.
