And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My  offering, my bread for my offerings by fire of sweet odour to  me, shall ye take heed to present to me at their set time.
And say unto them, This is the offering by fire which ye  shall present to Jehovah: two yearling lambs without blemish,  day by day, as a continual burnt-offering.
The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other  lamb thou shalt offer between the two evenings;
and a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for an oblation,  mingled with beaten oil, a fourth part of a hin:
\it is\ the continual burnt-offering which was ordained on  mount Sinai for a sweet odour, an offering by fire to Jehovah.
And the drink-offering thereof shall be a fourth part of a  hin for one lamb; in the sanctuary shall the drink-offering of  strong drink be poured out to Jehovah.
And the second lamb thou shalt offer between the two  evenings; \with the\ like oblation as that of the morning, and  the like drink-offering, shalt thou offer it as an offering by  fire of a sweet odour to Jehovah.
And on the sabbath day two yearling lambs without blemish,  and two tenth parts of fine flour as an oblation, mingled with  oil, and the drink-offering thereof:
it is the burnt-offering of the sabbath, for each sabbath  besides the continual burnt-offering, and its drink-offering.
And in the beginnings of your months ye shall present a  burnt-offering to Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram,  seven yearling lambs without blemish.
And three tenth parts of fine flour as an oblation,  mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth parts of fine  flour as an oblation, mingled with oil, for the ram;
and a tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil as an  oblation for each lamb: \it is\ a burnt-offering of a sweet  odour, an offering by fire to Jehovah.
And their drink-offerings: half a hin of wine for a  bullock, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the  fourth part of a hin for a lamb. This is the monthly  burnt-offering for each month throughout the months of the  year.
And a buck of the goats shall be offered, for a  sin-offering to Jehovah, besides the continual burnt-offering,  and its drink-offering.
And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the  month, is the passover to Jehovah.
And on the fifteenth day of this month is the feast; seven  days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
On the first day shall be a holy convocation: no manner of  servile work shall ye do;
and ye shall present an offering by fire, a burnt-offering  to Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven yearling  lambs; they shall be unto you without blemish;
and their oblation shall be of fine flour mingled with  oil: three tenth parts shall ye offer for a bullock, and two  tenth parts for the ram;
one tenth part shalt thou offer for each lamb, of the  seven lambs;
and a he-goat as a sin-offering, to make atonement for  you.
Besides the burnt-offering of the morning, which is for a  continual burnt-offering, shall ye offer this.
After this manner ye shall offer daily, seven days, the  bread of the offering by fire of a sweet odour to Jehovah; it  shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and its  drink-offering.
And on the seventh day ye shall have a holy convocation;  no manner of servile work shall ye do.
And on the day of the first-fruits, when ye present a new  oblation to Jehovah, after your weeks, ye shall have a holy  convocation: no manner of servile work shall ye do.
And ye shall present a burnt-offering for a sweet odour to  Jehovah: two young bullocks, one ram, seven yearling lambs;
and their oblation of fine flour mingled with oil, three  tenth parts for one bullock, two tenth parts for the ram,
one tenth part for each lamb of the seven lambs;
\and\ one buck of the goats, to make atonement for you.
Ye shall offer them besides the continual burnt-offering,  and its oblation (without blemish shall they be unto you), and  their drink-offerings.
