And these are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day  that Jehovah spoke with Moses on mount Sinai.
And these are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the  firstborn, and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the anointed  priests, who were consecrated to exercise the priesthood.
And Nadab and Abihu died before Jehovah when they offered  strange fire before Jehovah in the wilderness of Sinai, and  they had no sons; and Eleazar and Ithamar exercised the  priesthood in the presence of Aaron their father.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Bring the tribe of Levi near, and present them before Aaron  the priest, that they may minister unto him;
and they shall keep his charge, and the charge of the whole  assembly, before the tent of meeting, to do the service of the  tabernacle.
And they shall keep all the utensils of the tent of meeting,  and the charge of the children of Israel, to do the service of  the tabernacle.
And thou shalt give the Levites to Aaron and to his sons:  they are wholly given to him out of the children of Israel.
And Aaron and his sons shalt thou appoint that they may  attend to their priest`s office; and the stranger that cometh  near shall be put to death.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
And I, behold, I have taken the Levites from among the  children of Israel instead of every firstborn that breaketh  open the womb among the children of Israel, and the Levites  shall be mine;
for every firstborn is mine. On the day that I smote all  the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I hallowed unto me all the  firstborn in Israel, both of man and beast; mine shall they be:  I am Jehovah.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai,  saying,
Number the sons of Levi according to their fathers` houses,  after their families; every male from a month old and upward  shalt thou number them.
And Moses numbered them, according to the commandment of  Jehovah, -- as he had been commanded.
And these are the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon, and  Kohath, and Merari.
And these are the names of the sons of Gershon according to  their families: Libni and Shimei.
And the sons of Kohath according to their families: Amram  and Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel.
And the sons of Merari according to their families: Mahli  and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to  their fathers` houses.
Of Gershon, the family of the Libnites, and the family of  the Shimites: these are the families of the Gershonites.
Those that were numbered of them, according to the number  of all the males, from a month old and upward, those that were  numbered of them were seven thousand five hundred.
The families of the Gershonites encamped behind the  tabernacle westward.
And the prince of the father`s house of the Gershonites was  Eliasaph the son of Lael.
And the charge of the sons of Gershon in the tent of  meeting was: the tabernacle and the tent, its covering, and the  curtain of the entrance to the tent of meeting.
And the hangings of the court, and the curtain of the  entrance to the court, which surrounds the tabernacle and the  altar, and the cords thereof for all its service.
And of Kohath, the family of the Amramites, and the family  of the Izharites, and the family of the Hebronites, and the  family of the Uzzielites: these are the families of the  Kohathites.
According to the number of all the males, from a month old  and upward, there were eight thousand six hundred, who kept the  charge of the sanctuary.
The families of the sons of Kohath encamped on the side of  the tabernacle southward.
And the prince of the father`s house of the families of the  Kohathites was Elizaphan the son of Uzziel.
And their charge was the ark, and the table, and the  candlestick, and the altars, and the utensils of the sanctuary  with which they ministered, and the curtain, and all that  belongs to its service.
And the prince of princes of the Levites was Eleazar the  son of Aaron the priest: he had the oversight of them that kept  the charge of the sanctuary.
Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites, and the family of  the Mushites: these are the families of Merari.
And those that were numbered of them, according to the  number of all the males, from a month old and upward, were six  thousand two hundred.
And the prince of the father`s house of the families of  Merari was Zuriel the son of Abihail. They encamped on the side  of the tabernacle northward.
And the charge of the sons of Merari consisted in the  oversight of the boards of the tabernacle, and its bars, and  its pillars, and its bases, and all its furniture, and all that  belongs to its service,
and the pillars of the court round about, and their bases,  and their pegs, and their cords.
And those who encamped before the tabernacle eastward,  before the tent of meeting toward the sunrising, were Moses,  and Aaron and his sons, who kept the charge of the sanctuary  for the charge of the children of Israel; and the stranger that  cometh near shall be put to death.
All that were numbered of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron  numbered at the commandment of Jehovah, according to their  families, all the males from a month old and upward, were  twenty-two thousand.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Number all the first-born males  of the children of Israel from a month old and upward, and take  the number of their names.
And thou shalt take the Levites for me (I am Jehovah)  instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel; and  the cattle of the Levites, instead of all the firstlings among  the cattle of the children of Israel.
And Moses numbered, as Jehovah had commanded him, all the  firstborn among the children of Israel.
And all the firstborn males, by the number of the names,  from a month old and upward, according to their numbering, were  twenty-two thousand two hundred and seventy-three.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Take the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the  children of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of  their cattle; and the Levites shall be mine: I am Jehovah.
And for those that are to be ransomed, the two hundred and  seventy-three of the firstborn of the children of Israel, which  are in excess over the Levites,
thou shalt take five shekels apiece by the poll, according  to the shekel of the sanctuary shalt thou take them, -- twenty  gerahs the shekel;
and thou shalt give the money unto Aaron and unto his sons  for those in excess among them who are to be ransomed.
And Moses took the ransom-money from them that were over  and above those who were ransomed by the Levites;
of the firstborn of the children of Israel he took the  money, a thousand three hundred and sixty-five \shekels\,  according to the shekel of the sanctuary.
And Moses gave the money of them that were ransomed to  Aaron and to his sons, according to the commandment of Jehovah,  -- as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
