And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, If a  man or a woman have vowed the special vow of a Nazarite, to  consecrate themselves to Jehovah;
he shall separate himself from wine and strong drink: he  shall drink no vinegar of wine, nor vinegar of strong drink,  neither shall he drink any liquor of grapes, nor eat grapes,  fresh or dried.
All the days of his separation shall he eat nothing that is  made of the vine, from the seed-stones, even to the skin.
All the days of the vow of his separation there shall no  razor come upon his head; until the days be fulfilled, that he  hath consecrated himself to Jehovah, he shall be holy; he shall  let the locks of the hair of his head grow.
All the days that he hath consecrated himself to Jehovah, he  shall come near no dead body.
He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his  mother, for his brother, or for his sister when they die; for  the consecration of his God is upon his head.
All the days of his separation he is holy to Jehovah.
And if any one die unexpectedly by him suddenly, and he hath  defiled the head of his consecration, then he shall shave his  head on the day of his cleansing; on the seventh day shall he  shave it.
And on the eighth day he shall bring two turtle-doves, or  two young pigeons, to the priest, at the entrance of the tent  of meeting.
And the priest shall offer one for a sin-offering, and the  other for a burnt-offering, and make an atonement for him, for  that he sinned by the dead person; and he shall hallow his head  that same day.
And he shall \again\ consecrate to Jehovah the days of his  separation, and shall bring a yearling lamb for a  trespass-offering. But the first days are forfeited, for his  consecration hath been defiled.
And this is the law of the Nazarite on the day when the  days of his consecration are fulfilled: he shall be brought to  the entrance of the tent of meeting.
And he shall present his offering to Jehovah, one yearling  he-lamb without blemish for a burnt-offering, and one yearling  ewe-lamb without blemish for a sin-offering, and one ram  without blemish for a peace-offering;
and a basket with unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour  mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and  their oblation, and their drink-offerings.
And the priest shall present them before Jehovah, and shall  offer his sin-offering and his burnt-offering:
and he shall offer the ram, a sacrifice of peace-offering  to Jehovah, with the basket of unleavened bread; the priest  shall offer also his oblation and his drink-offering.
And the Nazarite shall shave the head of his consecration  at the entrance to the tent of meeting, and shall take the hair  of the head of his consecration, and put it on the fire which  is under the sacrifice of the peace-offering.
And the priest shall take the boiled shoulder of the ram,  and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened  wafer, and shall put them upon the hands of the Nazarite, after  he hath shaven \the hair of\ his consecration.
And the priest shall wave them as wave-offering before  Jehovah; it is holy for the priest, with the breast of the  wave-offering and with the shoulder of the heave-offering; and  afterwards the Nazarite may drink wine.
This is the law of the Nazarite who hath vowed: his  offering to Jehovah for his consecration, beside what his hand  is able to get; according to the vow which he vowed, so shall  he do, according to the law of his consecration.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak unto Aaron and unto his sons, saying, On this wise ye  shall bless the children of Israel: saying unto them,
Jehovah bless thee, and keep thee;
Jehovah make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto  thee;
Jehovah lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee  peace.
And they shall put my name upon the children of Israel; and  I will bless them.
