And it came to pass after the death of Joshua that the  children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Which of us shall go  up against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have  delivered the land into his hand.
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me into  my lot, and let us fight against the Canaanites, and I likewise  will go with thee into thy lot; and Simeon went with him.
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and  the Perizzites into their hand, and they smote them in Bezek,  ten thousand men.
And they found Adoni-Bezek in Bezek, and fought against him,  and they smote the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
And Adoni-Bezek fled, and they pursued after him, and caught  him, and cut off his thumbs and his great toes.
And Adoni-Bezek said, Seventy kings, with their thumbs and  their great toes cut off, gleaned under my table: as I have  done, so God has requited me. And they brought him to  Jerusalem, and there he died.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took  it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city  on fire.
And afterwards the children of Judah went down to fight  against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the hill-country, and in  the south, and in the lowland.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron  -- the name of Hebron before was Kirjath-Arba; and they slew  Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai.
And from there he went against the inhabitants of Debir;  now the name of Debir before was Kirjath-sepher.
And Caleb said, He that smites Kirjath-sepher and takes it,  to him will I give Achsah my daughter as wife.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb`s younger brother, took  it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
And it came to pass as she came, that she urged him to ask  of her father the field; and she sprang down from the ass. And  Caleb said to her, What wouldest thou?
And she said to him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast  given me a southern land; give me also springs of water. And  Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses` father-in-law, had  gone up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of  Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of  Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew the  Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it;  and they called the name of the city Hormah.
And Judah took Gazah and its border, and Ashkelon and its  border, and Ekron and its border.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took possession of the  hill-country, for he did not dispossess the inhabitants of the  valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And they gave to Caleb Hebron, as Moses had said; and he  dispossessed from thence the three sons of Anak.
And the children of Benjamin did not dispossess the  Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem; but the Jebusites  dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Bethel;  and Jehovah was with them.
And the house of Joseph sent to search out Bethel; now the  name of the city before was Luz.
And the guards saw a man come forth out of the city, and  said unto him, Shew us, we pray thee, how \we\ may enter into  the city, and we will shew thee kindness.
And he shewed them how to enter into the city. And they  smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the  man and all his family.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a  city, and called its name Luz, which is its name to this day.
And Manasseh did not dispossess Beth-shean and its  dependent villages, nor Taanach and its dependent villages, nor  the inhabitants of Dor and its dependent villages, nor the  inhabitants of Ibleam and its dependent villages, nor the  inhabitants of Megiddo and its dependent villages; and the  Canaanites would dwell in that land.
And it came to pass when Israel became strong, that they  made the Canaanites tributary; but they did not utterly  dispossess them.
And Ephraim did not dispossess the Canaanites that dwelt in  Gezer; but the Canaanites dwelt among them in Gezer.
Zebulun did not dispossess the inhabitants of Kitron, nor  the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among  them, and became tributaries.
Asher did not dispossess the inhabitants of Accho, nor the  inhabitants of Zidon, nor Ahlab, nor Achzib, nor Helbah, nor  Aphik, nor Rehob;
and the Asherites dwelt among the Canaanites, the  inhabitants of the land; for they did not dispossess them.
Naphtali did not dispossess the inhabitants of  Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth-anath; and he dwelt  among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, but the  inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-anath became  tributaries to them.
And the Amorites forced the children of Dan into the  hill-country, for they would not suffer them to come down to  the valley.
And the Amorites would dwell on mount Heres, in Ajalon and  in Shaalbim; but the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, and  they became tributaries.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of  Akrabbim, from the rock, and upwards.
