And after Abimelech, there rose up to save Israel Tola the  son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt  in Shamir on mount Ephraim.
And he judged Israel twenty-three years; and he died, and  was buried in Shamir.
And after him rose up Jair, a Gileadite; and he judged  Israel twenty-two years.
And he had thirty sons who rode on thirty ass colts; and  they had thirty cities, which are called the villages of Jair  to this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
And Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of  Jehovah, and served the Baals, and the Ashtoreths, and the gods  of Syria, and the gods of Zidon, and the gods of Moab, and the  gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines;  and they forsook Jehovah, and served him not.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he  sold him into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of  the children of Ammon.
And they oppressed and crushed the children of Israel in  that year; eighteen years \they oppressed\ all the children of  Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites,  which is in Gilead.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight  also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house  of Ephraim; and Israel was greatly distressed.
And the children of Israel cried to Jehovah, saying, We  have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our  God, and also served the Baals.
And Jehovah said to the children of Israel, Did I not  \save you\ from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the  children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
The Zidonians also, and Amalek and Maon oppressed you, and  ye cried to me, and I saved you out of their hand.
But ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore  I will save you no more.
Go and cry to the gods that ye have chosen: let them save  you in the time of your trouble.
And the children of Israel said to Jehovah, We have  sinned. Do thou unto us according to all that is good in thy  sight; only deliver us, we pray thee, this day.
And they put away the strange gods from among them, and  served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the misery of  Israel.
And the children of Ammon were called together and  encamped in Gilead; and the children of Israel gathered  together and encamped in Mizpeh.
And the people, the chief men of Gilead, said one to  another, Who is the man that will begin to fight against the  children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of  Gilead.
