And the men of Ephraim were called together, and passed  over northwards, and said to Jephthah, Why didst thou pass over  to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us  to go with thee? We will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And Jephthah said to them, I was at great strife, I and my  people, with the children of Ammon; and I called you, but ye  saved me not out of their hand.
And when I saw that ye would not save me, I put my life in  my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and  Jehovah gave them into my hand. Why then are ye come up to me  this day, to fight against me?
And Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and  fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim,  because they said, Ye, Gilead, ye are fugitives of Ephraim in  the midst of Ephraim, \and\ in the midst of Manasseh.
And Gilead took the fords of the Jordan before Ephraim; and  it came to pass that when the fugitives of Ephraim said, Let me  go over, the men of Gilead said to him, Art thou an Ephraimite?  and he said, No.
Then they said to him, Say now Shibboleth! and he said,  Sibboleth, and did not manage to pronounce \it\ rightly. Then  they took him, and slaughtered him at the fords of the Jordan.  And there fell at that time of Ephraim forty-two thousand.
And Jephthah judged Israel six years. And Jephthah the  Gileadite died, and was buried in \one of\ the cities of  Gilead.
And after him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.
And he had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent out of  the house, and thirty daughters he took in from abroad for his  sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
And Ibzan died, and was buried at Bethlehem.
And after him Elon, the Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he  judged Israel ten years.
And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Ajalon in  the land of Zebulun.
And after him Abdon the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite,  judged Israel.
And he had forty sons and thirty grandsons, who rode on  seventy ass colts. And he judged Israel eight years.
And Abdon the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, died, and  was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the  hill-country of the Amalekites.
