And Samson went to Gazah, and saw there a harlot, and went  in to her.
\And it was told\ the Gazathites, saying, Samson is come  hither. And they surrounded \him\, and laid wait for him all  night at the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night,  saying, In the morning light we will kill him.
And Samson lay till midnight; and he arose at midnight, and  seized the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts,  and tore them up with the bar, and put \them\ upon his  shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that  is before Hebron.
And it came to pass afterwards that he loved a woman in the  valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said  to her, Persuade him, and see in what his great strength is,  and with what we may prevail against him, that we may bind him  to overpower him; and we will each give thee eleven hundred  silver-pieces.
Then Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, in what  is thy great strength, and with what thou mightest be bound to  overpower thee.
And Samson said to her, If they should bind me with seven  fresh cords which have not been dried, then should I be weak,  and be as another man.
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven  fresh cords which had not been dried, and she bound him with  them.
Now she had liers in wait abiding in the chamber; and she  said to him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he  broke the cords, as a thread of tow is broken when it touches  the fire; and his strength was not known.
And Delilah said to Samson, Behold, thou hast mocked me  and told me lies. Now tell me, I pray thee, with what thou  mightest be bound.
And he said to her, If they should bind me fast with new  ropes, with which no work has been done, then should I be weak,  and be as another man.
And Delilah took new ropes, and bound him with them, and  said to him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! Now there  were liers in wait abiding in the chamber. And he broke them  from off his arms like a thread.
And Delilah said to Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me  and told me lies. Tell me with what thou mightest be bound. And  he said to her, If thou shouldest weave the seven locks of my  head with the web.
And she fastened it with the pin, and said to him, The  Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he awoke out of his  sleep, and tore out the pin of the beam, and the web.
Then she said to him, How canst thou say, I love thee,  when thy heart is not with me? these three times hast thou  mocked me, and hast not told me in what is thy great strength.
And it came to pass when she pressed him daily with her  words and urged him, that his soul was vexed unto death;
and he told her all his heart, and said to her, There has  not come a razor upon my head; for I am a Nazarite of God from  my mother`s womb; if I should be shaven, then my strength would  go from me, and I should be weak, and be like all mankind.
And Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, and  she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying,  Come up this time, for he has told me all his heart. And the  lords of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money  in their hand.
And she made him sleep upon her knees, and called a man,  and she caused him to shave off the seven locks of his head;  and she began to overpower him, and his strength went from him.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And  he awoke out of his sleep, and thought, I will go out as at  other times before, and disengage myself. And he knew not that  Jehovah had departed from him.
And the Philistines seized him, and put out his eyes, and  brought him down to Gazah, and bound him with fetters of  bronze; and he had to grind in the prison-house.
But the hair of his head began to grow after he was  shaved.
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered together to  sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice;  for they said, Our god has given Samson our enemy into our  hands.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for  they said, Our god has given into our hands our enemy, and the  destroyer of our country, even him who multiplied our slain.
And it came to pass when their hearts were merry, that  they said, Call for Samson, that he may make us sport. And they  called for Samson out of the prison-house, and he played before  them; and they set him between the pillars.
And Samson said to the lad that held him by the hand, Let  loose of me, and suffer me to feel the pillars upon which the  house stands, that I may lean upon them.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords  of the Philistines were there; and upon the roof there were  about three thousand men and women, who looked on while Samson  made sport.
And Samson called to Jehovah, and said, Lord Jehovah,  remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only  this once, O God, that I may take one vengeance upon the  Philistines for my two eyes.
And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which  the house stood (and he supported himself upon them), the one  with his right hand and the other with his left.
And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines! And he  bowed himself with might; and the house fell on the lords, and  on all the people that were therein. So the dead that he slew  at his death were more than those whom he had slain in his  life.
And his brethren came down, and all the house of his  father, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him  between Zoreah and Eshtaol in the sepulchre of Manoah his  father. And he had judged Israel twenty years.
