And the Angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Bochim, and  said, I made you to go up out of Egypt, and have brought you to  the land which I swore unto your fathers; and I said, I will  never break my covenant with you; and as for you,
ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land;  ye shall throw down their altars: but ye have not hearkened  unto my voice. Why have ye done this?
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before  you; but they shall be \scourges\ in your sides, and their gods  shall be a snare unto you.
And it came to pass, when the Angel of Jehovah spoke these  words to all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up  their voice and wept.
And they called the name of that place Bochim; and they  sacrificed there to Jehovah.
And Joshua dismissed the people, and the children of Israel  went every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and  all the days of the elders whose days were prolonged after  Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, which he  had done for Israel.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, a  hundred and ten years old.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in  Timnath-Heres, in mount Ephraim, on the north side of the  mountain of Gaash.
And also all that generation were gathered to their  fathers; and there arose another generation after them, which  knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for  Israel.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of  Jehovah, and served the Baals.
And they forsook Jehovah the God of their fathers, who had  brought them up out of the land of Egypt, and followed other  gods of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and  bowed themselves to them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and the  Ashtoreths.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he  delivered them into the hands of spoilers that spoiled them,  and he sold them into the hands of their enemies round about;  and they could not any longer stand before their enemies.
Whithersoever they went out the hand of Jehovah was against  them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah had sworn  unto them; and they were greatly distressed.
And Jehovah raised up judges, and they saved them out of  the hand of those that spoiled them.
But they did not even hearken to their judges, for they  went a whoring after other gods, and bowed themselves to them;  they turned quickly out of the way that their fathers had  walked in, obeying the commandments of Jehovah; they did not  so.
And when Jehovah raised them up judges, then Jehovah was  with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies  all the days of the judge; for it repented Jehovah because of  their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them and  crushed them.
And it came to pass when the judge died, that they turned  back and corrupted themselves more than their fathers, in  following other gods to serve them, and to bow down to them:  they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their stubborn  way.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel; and he  said, Because this nation hath transgressed my covenant which I  commanded their fathers, and hath not hearkened unto my voice,
I also will not henceforth dispossess from before them any  of the nations that Joshua left when he died;
that through them I may prove Israel, whether they will  keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers did  keep \it\, or not.
Therefore Jehovah left those nations, without dispossessing  them hastily, neither delivered he them into the hand of  Joshua.
