And all the children of Israel went forth, and the assembly  gathered together as one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the  land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And the heads of all the people, of all the tribes of  Israel, presented themselves in the congregation of the people  of God, four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of  Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said,  Tell \us\, how was this wickedness?
Then the Levite, the husband of the woman that was  murdered, answered and said, I came to Gibeah that \belongs\ to  Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
And the citizens of Gibeah rose against me, and surrounded  the house because of me, by night; they thought to slay me, and  my concubine have they humbled so that she died.
Then I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent  her throughout the country of the inheritance of Israel; for  they have committed lewdness and villany in Israel.
Behold, all ye, children of Israel, deliberate and give  here \your\ counsel.
And all the people rose up as one man, saying, We will not  any one go to his tent, neither will we any one turn into his  house.
But now this is the thing which we will do to Gibeah: \we  go\ by lot against it;
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the  tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand  of ten thousand, to fetch victuals for the people, that they  may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all  the villany that they have wrought in Israel.
And all the men of Israel were gathered against the city,  knit together as one man.
And the tribes of Israel sent men to all the families of  Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that has been done  among you?
And now give up the men, the sons of Belial, who are in  Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil from  Israel. But \the children of\ Benjamin would not hearken to the  voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together  out of the cities of Gibeah, to go out to battle against the  children of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time  out of the cities, twenty-six thousand men that drew sword,  besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven  hundred chosen men.
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men  left-handed; all these slang stones at a hair \breadth\, and  missed not.
And the men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were numbered  four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men  of war.
And the children of Israel arose and went up to Bethel,  and inquired of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to  the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said,  Judah first.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning and  encamped against Gibeah.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin;  and the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against  them at Gibeah.
And the children of Benjamin went forth out of Gibeah, and  destroyed to the ground of the Israelites that day twenty-two  thousand men.
And the people, the men of Israel, took courage, and set  the battle again in array in the place where they put  themselves in array the first day.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah  until even, and inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up  again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother?  And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
And the children of Israel came near against the children  of Benjamin the second day.
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the  second day, and again destroyed to the ground of the children  of Israel eighteen thousand men: all these drew the sword.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went  up and came to Bethel, and wept, and abode there before  Jehovah, and fasted that day until even, and offered up  burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah (and the  ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood  before it in those days), saying, Shall I yet again go out to  battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I  cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will give them  into thy hand.
And Israel set liers in wait against Gibeah, round about.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of  Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against  Gibeah, as at the other times.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people,  and were drawn away from the city, and began to smite of the  people, slaying as at the former times, in the highways, of  which one leads to Bethel and the other to Gibeah in the field,  about thirty men of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down  before us, as at the first. And the children of Israel said,  Let us flee, that we may draw them from the city to the  highways.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and  put themselves in array at Baal-Tamar; and the ambush of Israel  rushed forth out of their place, out of the meadows of Geba.
And there came from opposite Gibeah ten thousand chosen  men out of all Israel, and the battle was severe; but they knew  not that disaster was coming upon them.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children  of Israel destroyed of the Benjaminites that day twenty-five  thousand one hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten.  -- And the men of Israel gave place to Benjamin, because they  trusted to the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
And the ambush hasted, and fell upon Gibeah; and the  ambush drew along, and smote the whole city with the edge of  the sword.
Now there was an appointed sign between the men of Israel  and the ambush, that they should make a thick column of smoke  rise up out of the city.
And when the men of Israel turned back in the battle,  Benjamin began to smite, slaying of the men of Israel about  thirty men; for they said, Surely they are quite routed before  us as in the first battle.
And when the burning began to rise up out of the city as a  pillar of smoke, Benjamin looked behind, and behold, the whole  city ascended \in smoke\ to the heavens.
Then the men of Israel turned back, and the men of  Benjamin were amazed, for they saw that disaster was come upon  them.
And they turned before the men of Israel to the way of the  wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and those who came  out of the cities destroyed them in their midst.
They encompassed the Benjaminites, chased them, trode them  down at the resting-place over against Gibeah toward the  sun-rising.
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men: all  these, men of valour.
And they turned and fled towards the wilderness to the  cliff of Rimmon, and they gleaned of them in the highways five  thousand men; and pursued hard after them to Gidom, and slew  two thousand men of them.
So that all who fell that day of Benjamin were twenty-five  thousand men that drew the sword: all these, men of valour.
And six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness to  the cliff of Rimmon, and abode at the cliff of Rimmon four  months.
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of  Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well  the men of \every\ city as the cattle, and all that was found;  even all the cities that were found did they set on fire.
