Then sang Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, on that  day, saying,
For that leaders led in Israel, For that the people  willingly offered themselves, Bless Jehovah!
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes, I, \even\ I, will sing  to Jehovah; I will hymn to Jehovah the God of Israel.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth from Seir, When thou  marchedst out of the fields of Edom, The earth trembled, and  the heavens dropped, Yea, the clouds dropped water.
The mountains quaked before the face of Jehovah, That Sinai,  from before Jehovah the God of Israel.
In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of  Jael, The roads were unused, and the travellers on highways  went by crooked paths.
The villages ceased in Israel, Ceased until that I Deborah  arose, That I arose a mother in Israel.
They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: Was there a  shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered  themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah!
Ye that ride on white she-asses, ye that sit on carpets,  and ye that walk by the way, consider.
Because of the voice of those who divide \the spoil\ in the  midst of the places of drawing water; There they rehearse the  righteous acts of Jehovah, His righteous acts toward his  villages in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the  gates.
Awake, awake, Deborah! awake, awake, utter a song! Arise,  Barak, and lead captive thy captives, thou son of Abinoam!
Then come down, thou, the remnant of nobles, \as his\  people; Jehovah! come down with me in the midst of the mighty  ones.
Out of Ephraim \came\ those whose root was in Amalek; After  thee was Benjamin among thy peoples. Out of Machir came down  governors, And out of Zebulun they that handled the staff of  the ruler.
And the princes in Issachar were with Deborah; And  Issachar, like Barak; They were sent into the valley at his  feet. In the divisions of Reuben there were great resolves of  heart!
Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the bleating  of the flocks? In the divisions of Reuben there were great  deliberations of heart!
Gilead abode beyond Jordan; And Dan, why did he remain in  ships? Asher sat on the sea-shore, And abode in his creeks.
Zebulun is a people \that\ jeoparded their lives unto  death, Naphtali also, on the high places of the field.
Kings came, -- they fought; Then fought the kings of  Canaan; At Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo; They took no  spoil of silver.
From heaven was the fight; The stars from their courses  fought with Sisera.
The torrent of Kishon swept them away, That ancient  torrent, the torrent Kishon. My soul, thou hast trodden down  strength!
Then did the horse-hoofs clatter with the coursings, The  coursings of their steeds.
Curse Meroz, saith the Angel of Jehovah; Curse, curse the  inhabitants thereof; For they came not to the help of Jehovah,  To the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite  be, Blessed above women in the tent!
He asked water, she gave milk; In the nobles` bowl she  brought forth cream.
She put her hand to the tent-pin, And her right hand to the  workmen`s hammer; And she smote Sisera, she struck through his  head, Shattered and pierced through his temples.
Between her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down: Between  her feet he bowed, he fell; Where he bowed, there he fell,  overcome.
Them other of Sisera looketh out at the window, And crieth  through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why  tarry the trampings of his chariots?
The wise amongst her ladies answer \her\, Yea, she  returneth answer to herself,
Have they not found, divided the booty, A damsel, two  damsels, to each? A booty of dyed stuffs for Sisera, A booty of  dyed stuffs of embroidery, Dyed stuff of double embroidery for  the neck of a spoiler?
So let all thine enemies perish, Jehovah! But let them that  love him be as the rising of the sun in its might. And the land  had rest forty years.
