And the men of Ephraim said to him, What is this thing thou  hast done to us, that thou calledst us not, when thou wentest  to fight with Midian? And they disputed with him sharply.
And he said to them, What have I done now in comparison with  you? Are not the gleanings of Ephraim better than the vintage  of Abi-ezer?
Into your hands hath God delivered the princes of Midian,  Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do in comparison with  you? Then their spirit was appeased toward him, when he said  that word.
And Gideon came to the Jordan, \and\ passed over, he and the  three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing.
And he said to the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, loaves  of bread to the people that follow me, for they are faint; and  I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
And the chief men of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah  and Zalmunna already in thy hand, that we should give bread to  thine army?
And Gideon said, Therefore when Jehovah delivers Zebah and  Zalmunna into my hand, I will thresh your flesh with thorns of  the wilderness and with briars.
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spoke to them in like  manner. And the men of Penuel answered him as the men of  Succoth had answered.
And he spoke also to the men of Penuel, saying, When I come  again in peace, I will break down this tower.
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their camp with  them, about fifteen thousand \men\, all that were left of the  whole camp of the children of the east; for there had fallen a  hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwell in tents  on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the camp; for the  camp was at its ease.
And Zebah and Zalmunna fled, and he pursued after them, and  he took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and  discomfited all the camp.
And Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle, from  the ascent of Heres.
And he caught a youth of the men of Succoth, and inquired  of him; and he wrote down for him the chief men of Succoth, and  the elders thereof, seventy-seven men.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah  and Zalmunna, with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Are the  hands of Zebah and Zalmunna already in thy hand, that we should  give bread to thy men that are weary?
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the  wilderness and briars, and with them he taught the men of  Succoth.
And he broke down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of  the city.
Then said he to Zebah and Zalmunna, What sort of men were  they that ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so  were they; each one resembled the sons of a king.
And he said, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother.  \As\ Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not  slay you.
And he said to Jether his firstborn, Arise, slay them! But  the youth drew not his sword; for he feared, because he was yet  a youth.
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall on us;  for as is the man, so is his strength. And Gideon arose, and  slew Zebah and Zalmunna; and he took the moons that were on  their camels` necks.
And the men of Israel said to Gideon, Rule over us, both  thou, and thy son, and thy son`s son also; for thou hast saved  us from the hand of Midian.
And Gideon said to them, I will not rule over you, neither  shall my son rule over you: Jehovah will rule over you.
And Gideon said to them, I would desire a request of you:  give me every man the earrings of his booty; for they had  golden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.
And they said, We will willingly give \them\. And they  spread a garment, and cast therein every man the earrings of  his booty.
And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was  a thousand seven hundred \shekels\ of gold; besides the moons,  and eardrops, and the purple garments that were on the kings of  Midian, and besides the chains that were about their camels`  necks.
And Gideon made an ephod of them, and put it in his city,  in Ophrah. And all Israel went thither a whoring after it; and  it became a snare to Gideon, and to his house.
And Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and  they lifted up their heads no more. And the land had rest forty  years in the days of Gideon.
And Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his house.
Now Gideon had seventy sons who had come out of his loins,  for he had many wives.
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bore him a  son, and he gave him the name of Abimelech.
And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was  buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the  Abi-ezrites.
And it came to pass when Gideon was dead, that the children  of Israel turned again, and went a whoring after the Baals, and  set up Baal-Berith as their god.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their  God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their  enemies on every side.
And they shewed no kindness to the house of  Jerubbaal-Gideon, according to all the good that he had done to  Israel.
