After these things Tobias went his way praising God because he had given him a prosperous journey, and he blessed Raguel and Edna his wife, and went on his way until they drew near to Nineveh.
Then Raphael said to Tobias, "You know, brother, how you left your father;
let us hurry ahead, before your wife, and prepare the house;
and you should carry in your hand the gall of the fish." So they went their way, and the dog went after them.
Now Anna sat looking around, toward the way, for her son.
And when she spotted him arriving, she said to his father, "See now, your son arrives, and the man who went with him."
Then Raphael said, "I know, Tobias, that your father will open his eyes.
Therefore anoint his eyes with the gall, and being irritated by it, he will rub his eyes and the whiteness will fall away, and then he will see you."
Then Anna ran forth, and fell upon the neck of her son, and said to him, "Since I have seen you, my son, from now on I am content to die." And they both wept.
Tobit also went forth toward the door, and stumbled, but his son ran to him.
And he took hold of his father and struck his fathers' eyes with the gall, saying, "Be of good hope, my father."
And when his eyes began to sting, he rubbed them;
and the whiteness pealed away from the corners of his eyes; and when he saw his son, he fell upon his neck.
And he wept and said, "Blessed are you, O God, and blessed is your name for ever; and blessed are all your holy angels.
For you have scourged me, and have taken pity on me; for, behold, I see my son Tobias." And his son went in rejoicing, and he told his father the great things which had happened to him in Media.
Then Tobit went out to meet his daughter-in-law at the gate of Nineveh, rejoicing and praising God; and those who saw him go marveled because he had received his sight.
But Tobit gave thanks before them, because God had mercy on him. And when he came near to Sarah his daughter-in-law, he blessed her, saying, "You are welcome, daughter. May God be blessed, who brought you to us, and blessed be your father and your mother." And there was joy among all his brethren who were at Nineveh.
And Achiacharus, and Nasbas his brother's son, came.
And Tobias' wedding was kept for seven days with great joy.
