I am the man that hath seen affliction by the rod of his  wrath.
Me hath he led, and brought into darkness, and not into  light.
Surely against me hath he turned again and again his hand  all the day.
My flesh and my skin hath he wasted away, he hath broken my  bones.
He hath built against me, and encompassed \me\ with gall and  toil.
He hath made me to dwell in dark places as those that have  been long dead.
He hath hedged me about that I cannot get out: he hath made  my chain heavy.
Even when I cry and shout, he shutteth out my prayer.
He hath inclosed my ways with hewn stone, he hath made my  paths crooked.
He is unto me \as\ a bear lying in wait, a lion in secret  places.
He hath turned aside my ways, and pulled me in pieces; he  hath made me desolate.
He hath bent his bow, and set me as a mark for the arrow.
He hath caused the arrows of his quiver to enter into my  reins.
I am become a derision to all my people; their song all the  day.
He hath sated me with bitterness, he hath made me drunk  with wormwood.
He hath also broken my teeth with gravel stones, he hath  covered me with ashes.
And thou hast removed my soul far off from peace: I have  forgotten prosperity.
And I said, My strength is perished, and my hope in  Jehovah.
Remember thou mine affliction and my wandering, the  wormwood and the gall.
My soul hath \them\ constantly in remembrance, and is  humbled in me.
-- This I recall to heart, therefore have I hope.
It is of Jehovah`s loving-kindness we are not consumed,  because his compassions fail not;
they are new every morning: great is thy faithfulness.
Jehovah is my portion, saith my soul; therefore will I hope  in him.
Jehovah is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul  \that\ seeketh him.
It is good that one should both wait, and that in silence,  for the salvation of Jehovah.
It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth:
He sitteth solitary and keepeth silence, because he hath  laid it upon him;
he putteth his mouth in the dust, if so be there may be  hope;
he giveth his cheek to him that smiteth him; he is filled  full with reproach.
For the Lord will not cast off for ever;
but if he have caused grief, he will have compassion  according to the multitude of his loving-kindnesses:
for he doth not willingly afflict or grieve the children of  men.
To crush under foot all the prisoners of the earth,
to turn aside the right of a man before the face of the  Most High,
to wrong a man in his cause, -- will not the Lord see it?
Who is he that saith, and there cometh to pass, what the  Lord hath not commanded?
Out of the mouth of the Most High doth not there proceed  evil and good?
Wherefore doth a living man complain, a man for the  punishment of his sins?
Let us search and try our ways, and turn again to Jehovah.
Let us lift up our heart with \our\ hands unto ùGod in the  heavens.
We have transgressed and have rebelled: thou hast not  pardoned.
Thou hast covered thyself with anger, and pursued us; thou  hast slain, thou hast not spared.
Thou hast covered thyself with a cloud, that prayer should  not pass through.
Thou hast made us the offscouring and refuse in the midst  of the peoples.
All our enemies have opened their mouth against us.
Fear and the pit are come upon us, devastation and ruin.
Mine eye runneth down with streams of water for the ruin of  the daughter of my people.
Mine eye poureth down, and ceaseth not, without any  intermission,
till Jehovah look down and behold from the heavens.
Mine eye affecteth my soul, because of all the daughters of  my city.
They that are mine enemies without cause have chased me  sore like a bird.
They have cut off my life in a pit, and cast a stone upon  me.
Waters streamed over my head; I said, I am cut off.
I called upon thy name, Jehovah, out of the lowest pit.
Thou hast heard my voice: hide not thine ear at my sighing,  at my cry.
Thou drewest near in the day that I called upon thee; thou  saidst, Fear not.
Lord, thou hast pleaded the cause of my soul, thou hast  redeemed my life.
Jehovah, thou hast seen my wrong: judge thou my cause.
Thou hast seen all their vengeance, all their imaginations  against me.
Thou hast heard their reproach, O Jehovah, all their  imaginations against me;
the lips of those that rise up against me and their  meditation against me all the day.
Behold thou their sitting down and their rising up: I am  their song.
Render unto them a recompence, O Jehovah, according to the  work of their hands;
give them obduracy of heart, thy curse unto them;
pursue them in anger, and destroy them from under the  heavens of Jehovah.
