The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ the Son of God;
As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee;
The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
John was baptizing in the wilderness, and preaching the baptism of repentance, for the remission of sins.
And there went out to him all the land of Judea, and they of Jerusalem, and were all baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
And John was clothed with camels hair, and with a girdle of a skin about his loins; and he ate locusts and wild honey;
And preached, saying, There cometh after me one mightier than I, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.
I indeed have baptized you with water: but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.
And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth to Galilee, and was baptized by John in Jordan.
And immediately coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him.
And there came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
And immediately the spirit driveth him into the wilderness.
And he was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan: and was with the wild beasts, and the angels ministered to him.
Now after John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God,
And saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe the gospel.
Now as he was walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.
And Jesus said to them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men.
And immediately they forsook their nets, and followed him.
And when he had gone a little further thence, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets.
And immediately he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him.
And they went into Capernaum; and immediately on the sabbath he entered into the synagogue and taught.
And they were astonished at his doctrine: for he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes.
And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out,
Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him.
And when the unclean spirit had torn him, and cried with a loud voice, he came out of him.
And they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What thing is this? what new doctrine is this? for with authority he commandeth even the unclean spirits, and they obey him.
And immediately his fame spread abroad throughout all the region around Galilee.
And forthwith, when they had come out of the synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
But the mother of Simon's wife lay sick with a fever; and forthwith they tell him of her.
And he came and took her by the hand, and lifted her up; and immediately the fever left her, and she ministered to them.
And at evening, when the sun had set, they brought to him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with demons.
And all the city was gathered at the door.
And he healed many that were sick with divers diseases, and cast out many demons; and suffered not the demons to speak, because they knew him.
And in the morning, rising a great while before day, he went out and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed.
And Simon, and they that were with him, followed after him.
And when they had found him, they said to him, All men seek for thee.
And he said to them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also: for, for this purpose have I come.
And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and cast out demons.
And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying to him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
And Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched him, and saith to him, I will; be thou clean.
And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed.
And he strictly charged him, and forthwith sent him away;
And saith to him, See thou say nothing to any man; but go, show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.
But he went out, and began to publish it much, and to blaze abroad the matter, so that Jesus could no more openly enter into the city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter.
