And he began to speak to them by parables. A certain man planted a vineyard, and set a hedge about it, and digged a place for the wine-vat, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a far country.
And at the season he sent to the husbandmen a servant, that he might receive from the husbandmen of the fruit of the vineyard.
And they caught him, and beat him and sent him away empty.
And again, he sent to them another servant: and at him they cast stones, and wounded him in the head, and sent him away shamefully handled.
And again he sent another; and him they killed, and many others; beating some, and killing some.
Having yet therefore one son, his well-beloved, he sent him also last to them, saying, They will reverence my son.
But those husbandmen said among themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.
And they took him, and killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.
What therefore will the Lord of the vineyard do? he will come and destroy the husbandmen, and will give the vineyard to others.
And have ye not read this scripture; The stone which the builders rejected is become the head of the corner:
This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes?
And they sought to lay hold on him, but feared the people; for they knew that he had spoken the parable against them: and they left him, and departed.
And they sent to him certain of the Pharisees, and of the Herodians, to catch him in his words.
And when they had come, they say to him, Master, we know that thou art true, and carest for no man: for thou regardest not the person of men, but teachest the way of God in truth: Is it lawful to give tribute to Cesar, or not?
Shall we give, or shall we not give? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why tempt ye me? bring me a penny, that I may see it.
And they brought it: and he saith to them, Whose is this image and superscription? And they said to him, Cesar's.
And Jesus answering, said to them, Render to Cesar the things that are Cesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they wondered at him.
Then come to him the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection; and they asked him, saying,
Master, Moses wrote to us, If a man's brother shall die, and leave his wife, and leave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise seed to his brother.
Now there were seven brothers: and the first took a wife, and dying left no seed.
And the second took her, and died, neither left he any seed: and the third likewise.
And the seven had her, and left no seed: last of all the woman died also.
In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise, whose wife shall she be of them? for the seven had her for a wife.
And Jesus answering, said to them, Do ye not therefore err, because ye know not the scriptures, neither the power of God?
For when they shall rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage; but are as the angels who are in heaven.
And concerning the dead that they rise; have ye not read in the book of Moses, how in the bush God spoke to him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?
He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living: ye therefore do greatly err.
And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all?
And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord.
And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment.
And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself: there is no other commandment greater than these.
And the scribe said to him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth: for there is one God; and there is no other but he.
And to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbor as himself, is more than all whole burnt-offerings and sacrifices.
And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said to him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man after that durst ask him any question.
And Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the temple, How say the scribes that Christ is the son of David?
For David himself said by the Holy Spirit, The LORD said to my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thy enemies thy footstool.
David therefore himself calleth him Lord, and whence is he then his son? and the common people heard him gladly.
And he said to them in his doctrine, Beware of the scribes, who love to go in long clothing, and love salutations in the market-places,
And the chief seats in the synagogues, and the uppermost rooms at feasts:
Who devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayers: these shall receive greater damnation.
And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and beheld how the people cast money into the treasury: and many that were rich cast in much.
And there came a certain poor widow, and she threw in two mites, which make a farthing.
And he called his disciples, and saith to them, Verily I say to you, that this poor widow hath cast in more, than all they who have cast into the treasury.
For all they cast in of their abundance: but she of her want cast in all that she had, even all her living.
