Now it came to pass, while the multitude pressed upon him and heard the word of God, that he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret;
and he saw two boats standing by the lake: but the fishermen had gone out of them, and were washing their nets.
And he entered into one of the boats, which was Simon`s, and asked him to put out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the multitudes out of the boat.
And when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Put out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught.
And Simon answered and said, Master, we toiled all night, and took nothing: but at thy word I will let down the nets.
And when they had done this, they inclosed a great multitude of fishes; and their nets were breaking;
and they beckoned unto their partners in the other boat, that they should come and help them. And they came, and filled both the boats, so that they began to sink.
But Simon Peter, when he saw it, fell down at Jesus` knees, saying, Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord.
For he was amazed, and all that were with him, at the draught of the fishes which they had taken;
and so were also James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not; from henceforth thou shalt catch men.
And when they had brought their boats to land, they left all, and followed him.
And it came to pass, while he was in one of the cities, behold, a man full of leprosy: and when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
And he stretched forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will; be thou made clean. And straightway the leprosy departed from him.
And he charged him to tell no man: but go thy way, and show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.
But so much the more went abroad the report concerning him: and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed of their infirmities.
But he withdrew himself in the deserts, and prayed.
And it came to pass on one of those days, that he was teaching; and there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, who were come out of every village of Galilee and Judaea and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was with him to heal.
And behold, men bring on a bed a man that was palsied: and they sought to bring him in, and to lay him before him.
And not finding by what \way\ they might bring him in because of the multitude, they went up to the housetop, and let him down through the tiles with his couch into the midst before Jesus.
And seeing their faith, he said, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee.
And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this that speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?
But Jesus perceiving their reasonings, answered and said unto them, Why reason ye in your hearts?
Which is easier, to say, Thy sins are forgiven thee; or to say, Arise and walk?
But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority on earth to forgive sins (he said unto him that was palsied), I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go unto thy house.
And immediately he rose up before them, and took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his house, glorifying God.
And amazement took hold on all, and they glorified God; and they were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things to-day.
And after these things he went forth, and beheld a publican, named Levi, sitting at the place of toll, and said unto him, Follow me.
And he forsook all, and rose up and followed him.
And Levi made him a great feast in his house: and there was a great multitude of publicans and of others that were sitting at meat with them.
And the Pharisees and their scribes murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with the publicans and sinners?
And Jesus answering said unto them, They that are in health have no need of a physician; but they that are sick.
I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance.
And they said unto him, The disciples of John fast often, and make supplications; likewise also the \disciples\ of the Pharisees; but thine eat and drink.
And Jesus said unto them, Can ye make the sons of the bride-chamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them?
But the days will come; and when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, then will they fast in those days.
And he spake also a parable unto them: No man rendeth a piece from a new garment and putteth it upon an old garment; else he will rend the new, and also the piece from the new will not agree with the old.
And no man putteth new wine into old wine-skins; else the new wine will burst the skins, and itself will be spilled, and the skins will perish.
But new wine must be put into fresh wine-skins.
And no man having drunk old \wine\ desireth new; for he saith, The old is good.
