O give praise to the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
Let Israel now say, that his mercy is unchanging for ever.
Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy is unchanging for ever.
Let all worshippers of the Lord now say, that his mercy is unchanging for ever.
I made my prayer to the Lord in my trouble: and the Lord gave me an answer, and put me in a wide place.
The Lord is on my side; I will have no fear: what is man able to do to me?
The Lord is my great helper: I will see my desire against my haters.
It is better to have faith in the Lord than to put one's hope in man.
It is better to have faith in the Lord than to put one's hope in rulers.
All the nations have come round me; but in the name of the Lord I will have them cut down.
They are round me, yes, they are all about me; but in the name of the Lord I will have them cut down.
They are round me like bees; but they are put out like a fire among thorns; for in the name of the Lord I will have them cut down.
I have been hard pushed by you, so that I might have a fall: but the Lord was my helper.
The Lord is my strength and my song; he has become my salvation.
The sound of joy and salvation is in the tents of the upright; the right hand of the Lord does works of power.
The right hand of the Lord is lifted up; the right hand of the Lord does works of power.
Life and not death will be my part, and I will give out the story of the works of the Lord.
The hand of Jah has been hard on me; but he has not given me up to death.
Let the doors of righteousness be open to me; I will go in and give praise to the Lord.
This is the door of the Lord's house; the workers of righteousness will go in through it.
I will give you praise, for you have given me an answer, and have become my salvation.
The stone which the builders put on one side has become the chief stone of the building.
This is the Lord's doing; it is a wonder in our eyes.
This is the day which the Lord has made; we will be full of joy and delight in it.
Send salvation now, O Lord; Lord, send us your blessing.
A blessing be on him who comes in the name of the Lord; we give you blessing from the house of the Lord.
The Lord is God, and he has given us light; let the holy dance be ordered with branches, even up to the horns of the altar.
You are my God, and I will give you praise; my God, and I will give honour to your name.
O give praise to the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
