O give praise to the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
O give praise to the God of gods: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
O give praise to the Lord of lords: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
To him who only does great wonders: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
To him who by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
To him by whom the earth was stretched out over the waters: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
To him who made great lights: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
The sun to have rule by day: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
The moon and the stars to have rule by night: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
To him who put to death the first-fruits of Egypt: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
And took out Israel from among them: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
With a strong hand and an outstretched arm: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
To him who made a way through the Red Sea: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
And let Israel go through it: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
By him Pharaoh and his army were overturned in the Red Sea: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
To him who took his people through the waste land: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
To him who overcame great kings: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
And put noble kings to death: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
Sihon, king of the Amorites: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
And Og, king of Bashan: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
And gave their land to his people for a heritage: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
Even a heritage for his servant Israel: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
Who kept us in mind when we were in trouble: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
And has taken us out of the hands of our haters: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
Who gives food to all flesh: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
O give praise to the God of heaven: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
