To the chief music-maker; put to Shoshannim. Of the sons of Korah. Maschil. A Song of loves.
My heart is flowing over with good things; my words are of that which I have made for a king; my tongue is the pen of a ready writer.
You are fairer than the children of men; grace is flowing through your lips; for this cause the blessing of God is with you for ever.
Put on your sword, make it ready at your side, O strong chief, with your glory and power.
And go nobly on in your power, because you are good and true and without pride; and your right hand will be teaching you things of fear.
Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's haters; because of them the peoples are falling under you.
Your seat of power, O God, is for ever and ever; the rod of your kingdom is a rod of honour.
You have been a lover of righteousness and a hater of evil: and so God, your God, has put the oil of joy on your head, lifting you high over all other kings.
Your robes are full of the smell of all sorts of perfumes and spices; music from the king's ivory houses has made you glad.
Kings' daughters are among your noble women: on your right is the queen in gold of Ophir.
O daughter, give thought and attention, and let your ear be open; no longer keep in mind your people, and your father's house;
So will the king have a great desire for you, seeing how beautiful you are; because he is your lord, give him honour.
And the daughters of Tyre will be there with an offering; those who have wealth among the people will be looking for your approval.
In the great house the king's daughter is all shining: her clothing is worked with gold.
She will come before the king in robes of needlework; the virgins in her train will come before you.
With joy and rapture will they come; they will go into the king's house.
Your children will take the place of your fathers; so that you may make them rulers over all the earth.
I will keep the memory of your name living through all generations; and because of this the people will give you praise for ever.
