A Psalm. Of Asaph.<BR> The God of gods, even the Lord, has sent out his voice, and the earth is full of fear; from the coming up of the sun to its going down.
From Zion, most beautiful of places, God has sent out his light.
Our God will come, and will not keep quiet; with fire burning before him, and storm-winds round him.
His voice will go out to the heavens and to the earth, for the judging of his people:
Let my saints come together to me; those who have made an agreement with me by offerings.
And let the heavens make clear his righteousness; for God himself is the judge. (Selah.)
Give ear, O my people, to my words; O Israel, I will be a witness against you; I am God, even your God.
I will not take up a cause against you because of your offerings, or because of your burned offerings, which are ever before me.
I will take no ox out of your house, or he-goats from your flocks;
For every beast of the woodland is mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills.
I see all the birds of the mountains, and the beasts of the field are mine.
If I had need of food, I would not give you word of it; for the earth is mine and all its wealth.
Am I to take the flesh of the ox for my food, or the blood of goats for my drink?
Make an offering of praise to God; keep the agreements which you have made with the Most High;
Let your voice come up to me in the day of trouble; I will be your saviour, so that you may give glory to me.
But to the sinner, God says, What are you doing, talking of my laws, or taking the words of my agreement in your mouth?
Seeing that you have no desire for my teaching, turning your back on my words.
When you saw a thief, you were in agreement with him, and you were joined with those who took other men's wives.
You have given your mouth to evil, your tongue to words of deceit.
You say evil of your brother; you make false statements against your mother's son.
These things have you done, and I said nothing; it seemed to you that I was such a one as yourself; but I will make a protest against you, and put them in order before your eyes.
Now keep this in mind, you who have no memory of God, for fear that you may be crushed under my hand, with no one to give you help:
Whoever makes an offering of praise gives glory to me; and to him who is upright in his ways I will make clear the salvation of God.
