Maschil. Of Asaph.<BR> Of God, why have you put us away from you for ever? why is the fire of your wrath smoking against the sheep who are your care?
Keep in mind your band of worshippers, for whom you gave payment in the days which are past, whom you took for yourself as the people of your heritage; even this mountain of Zion, which has been your resting-place.
Go up and see the unending destruction; all the evil which your haters have done in the holy place;
Sending out their voices like lions among your worshippers; they have put up their signs to be seen.
They are cutting down, like a man whose blade is lifted up against the thick trees.
Your doors are broken down with hammers and iron blades.
They have put on fire your holy place; they have made the place of your name unclean, pulling it down to the earth.
They have said in their hearts, Let us put an end to them all together; they have given over to the fire all God's places of worship in the land.
We do not see our signs: there is no longer any prophet, or anyone among us to say how long.
O God, how long will those who are against us say cruel things? will the hater go on looking down on your name for ever?
Why are you keeping back your hand, and covering your right hand in your robe?
For from the past God is my King, working salvation in the earth.
The sea was parted in two by your strength; the heads of the great sea-beasts were broken.
The heads of the great snake were crushed by you; you gave them as food to the fishes of the sea.
You made valleys for fountains and springs; you made the ever-flowing rivers dry.
The day is yours and the night is yours: you made the light and the sun.
By you all the limits of the earth were fixed; you have made summer and winter.
Keep this in mind, O Lord, that your haters have said cruel things, and that your name has been looked down on by a people of evil behaviour.
O give not the soul of your dove to the hawk; let not the life of the poor go out of your memory for ever.
Keep in mind your undertaking; for the dark places of the earth are full of pride and cruel acts.
O let not the crushed be turned back in shame; let the low man and the poor give praise to your name.
Up! O God, be the judge of your cause; keep in mind the bitter things which the man of evil behaviour says against you every day.
Keep in mind the voice of your haters; the outcry of those who come against you goes up every day.
