O God, in whose hands is punishment, O God of punishment, let your shining face be seen.
Be lifted up, O judge of the earth; let their reward come to the men of pride.
How long will sinners, O Lord, how long will sinners have joy over us?
Words of pride come from their lips; all the workers of evil say great things of themselves.
Your people are crushed by them, O Lord, your heritage is troubled,
They put to death the widow and the guest, they take the lives of children who have no father;
And they say, Jah will not see it, the God of Jacob will not give thought to it.
Give your mind to my words, you who are without wisdom among the people; you foolish men, when will you be wise?
Has he by whom your ears were planted no hearing? or is he blind by whom your eyes were formed?
He who is the judge of the nations, will he not give men the reward of their acts, even he who gives knowledge to man?
The Lord has knowledge of the thoughts of man, for they are only a breath.
Happy is the man who is guided by you, O Jah, and to whom you give teaching out of your law;
So that you may give him rest from the days of evil, till a hole is made ready for the destruction of the sinners.
The Lord will not give up his people, or take away his support from his heritage;
But decisions will again be made in righteousness; and they will be kept by all whose hearts are true.
Who will give me help against the sinners? and who will be my support against the workers of evil?
If the Lord had not been my helper, my soul would quickly have gone down into death.
If I say, My foot is slipping; your mercy, O Lord, is my support.
Among all my troubled thoughts, your comforts are the delight of my soul.
What part with you has the seat of sin, which makes evil into a law?
They are banded together against the soul of the upright, to give decisions against those who have done no wrong.
But the Lord is my safe resting-place; my God is the Rock where I am safe.
And he has made their evil designs come back on themselves, cutting them off in their sin; the Lord our God will put an end to them.
