Foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you not to obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was openly set forth among you as crucified?
I just want to learn this from you. Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by hearing of faith?
Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now completed in the flesh?
Did you suffer so many things in vain, if it is indeed in vain?
He therefore that supplies the Spirit to you, and works miracles among you, does he do it by the works of the law, or by hearing of faith?
Even as Abraham "believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness."
Know therefore that those who are of faith, the same are sons of Abraham.
The scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, "In you will all the nations be blessed."
So then, those who are of faith are blessed with the faithful Abraham.
For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, "Cursed is everyone who doesn't continue in all things that are written in the book of the law, to do them."
Now that no man is justified by the law before God is evident, for, "The righteous will live by faith."
The law is not of faith, but, "He that does them will live in them."
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, "Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree,"
that the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Christ Jesus; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Brothers, I speak like men. Though it is only a man's covenant, yet when it has been confirmed, no one makes it void, or adds to it.
Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He doesn't say, "To seeds," as of many, but as of one, "To your seed," which is Christ.
Now I say this. A covenant confirmed beforehand by God in Christ, the law, which came four hundred and thirty years after, does not annul, so as to make the promise of no effect.
For if the inheritance is of the law, it is no more of promise; but God has granted it to Abraham by promise.
What then is the law? It was added because of transgressions, until the seed should come to whom the promise has been made. It was ordained through angels by the hand of a mediator.
Now a mediator is not between one, but God is one.
Is the law then against the promises of God? Certainly not! For if there had been a law given which could make alive, most assuredly righteousness would have been of the law.
But the scriptures shut up all things under sin, that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
But before faith came, we were kept in custody under the law, shut up to the faith which should afterwards be revealed.
So that the law has become our tutor to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith.
But now that faith is come, we are no longer under a tutor.
For you are all sons of God, through faith in Christ Jesus.
For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
If you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's seed, heirs according to promise.
