The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
It shall happen in the latter days, that the mountain of Yahweh's       house shall be established on the top of the mountains, and shall       be raised above the hills; and all nations shall flow to it.
Many peoples shall go and say, Come you, and let us go up       to the mountain of Yahweh, to the house of the God of Jacob; and       he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for       out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of Yahweh from       Jerusalem.
He will judge between the nations, and will       decide concerning many peoples; and they shall beat their swords       into plowshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks; nation       shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn       war any more.
House of Jacob, come, and let us walk in the       light of Yahweh.
For you have forsaken your people the       house of Jacob, because they are filled \with customs\ from the       east, and \are\ soothsayers like the Philistines, and they clasp       hands with the children of foreigners.
Their land is full       of silver and gold, neither is there any end of their treasures;       their land also is full of horses, neither is there any end of       their chariots.
Their land also is full of idols; they       worship the work of their own hands, that which their own fingers       have made.
Man is bowed down, and mankind is humbled;       therefore don't forgive them.
Enter into the rock, and       hide in the dust, from before the terror of Yahweh, and from the       glory of his majesty.
The lofty looks of man shall be       brought low, and the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down, and       Yahweh alone shall be exalted in that day.
For there shall       be a day of Yahweh of Hosts on all that is proud and haughty, and       on all that is lifted up; and it shall be brought low;
and       on all the cedars of Lebanon, that are high and lifted up, and on       all the oaks of Bashan,
and on all the high mountains, and       on all the hills that are lifted up,
and on every lofty       tower, and on every fortified wall,
and on all the ships       of Tarshish, and on all pleasant imagery.
The loftiness of       man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be       brought low; and Yahweh alone shall be exalted in that day.
The idols shall utterly pass away.
Men shall go       into the caves of the rocks, and into the holes of the earth,       from before the terror of Yahweh, and from the glory of his       majesty, when he arises to shake mightily the earth.
In       that day men shall cast away their idols of silver, and their       idols of gold, which have been made for them to worship, to the       moles and to the bats;
to go into the caverns of the       rocks, and into the clefts of the ragged rocks, from before the       terror of Yahweh, and from the glory of his majesty, when he       arises to shake mightily the earth.
Cease you from man,       whose breath is in his nostrils; for wherein is he to be       accounted of?
