In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah: we have a strong city; salvation will he appoint for walls and bulwarks.
Open you the gates, that the righteous nation which keeps faith may enter in.
You will keep \him\ in perfect peace, \whose\ mind \is\ stayed \on you\; because he trusts in you.
Trust in Yahweh forever; for in Yah, Yahweh, is an everlasting Rock.
For he has brought down those who dwell on high, the lofty city: he lays it low, he lays it low even to the ground; he brings it even to the dust.
The foot shall tread it down; even the feet of the poor, and the steps of the needy.
The way of the just is uprightness: you that are upright do direct the path of the just.
Yes, in the way of your judgments, Yahweh, have we waited for you; to your name, even to your memorial \name\, is the desire of our soul.
With my soul have I desired you in the night; yes, with my spirit within me will I seek you earnestly: for when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.
Let favor be showed to the wicked, yet will he not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness will he deal wrongfully, and will not see the majesty of Yahweh.
Yahweh, your hand is lifted up, yet they don't see: but they shall see \your\ zeal for the people, and be put to shame; yes, fire shall devour your adversaries.
Yahweh, you will ordain peace for us; for you have also worked all our works for us.
Yahweh our God, other lords besides you have had dominion over us; but by you only will we make mention of your name.
\They are\ dead, they shall not live; \they are\ deceased, they shall not rise: therefore have you visited and destroyed them, and made all memory of them to perish.
You have increased the nation, O Yahweh, you have increased the nation; you are glorified; you have enlarged all the borders of the land.
Yahweh, in trouble have they visited you; they poured out a prayer \when\ your chastening was on them.
Like as a woman with child, who draws near the time of her delivery, is in pain and cries out in her pangs; so we have been before you, Yahweh.
We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not worked any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.
Your dead shall live; my dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing, you who dwell in the dust; for your dew is \as\ the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast forth the dead.
Come, my people, enter you into your chambers, and shut your doors about you: hide yourself for a little moment, until the indignation be past.
For, behold, Yahweh comes forth out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.
