For, behold, the Lord, Yahweh of Hosts, does take away from       Jerusalem and from Judah stay and staff, the whole stay of bread,       and the whole stay of water;
the mighty man, and the man of       war; the judge, and the prophet, and the diviner, and the elder;
the captain of fifty, and the honorable man, and the       counselor, and the expert artificer, and the skillful enchanter.
I will give children to be their princes, and babes shall       rule over them.
The people shall be oppressed, everyone by       another, and everyone by his neighbor: the child shall behave       himself proudly against the old man, and the base against the       honorable.
When a man shall take hold of his brother in the       house of his father, \saying\, You have clothing, be you our       ruler, and let this ruin be under your hand;
in that day       shall he lift up \his voice\, saying, I will not be a healer; for       in my house is neither bread nor clothing: you shall not make me       ruler of the people.
For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is       fallen; because their tongue and their doings are against Yahweh,       to provoke the eyes of his glory.
The show of their face       testifies against them. They declare their sin as Sodom. They       don't hide it. Woe to their soul! For they have done evil to       themselves.
Say you of the righteous, that \it shall be\       well \with him\; for they shall eat the fruit of their doings.
Woe to the wicked! \it shall be\ ill \with him\; for what       his hands have done shall be done to him.
As for my       people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them.       My people, those who lead you cause you to err, and destroy the       way of your paths.
Yahweh stands up to contend, and stands       to judge the peoples.
Yahweh will enter into judgment with       the elders of his people, and the princes of it: It is you who       have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of the poor is in your       houses:
what do you mean that you crush my people, and       grind the face of the poor? says the Lord, Yahweh of Hosts.
Moreover Yahweh said, Because the daughters of Zion are       haughty, and walk with outstretched necks and wanton eyes,       walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their       feet;
therefore the Lord will strike with a scab the crown       of the head of the daughters of Zion, and Yahweh will lay bare       their secret parts.
In that day the Lord will take away the beauty of their anklets, and the headbands, and the crescents;
the pendants, and the bracelets, and the mufflers;
the headdresses, and the ankle chains, and the sashes, and the perfume-boxes, and the amulets;
the rings, and the nose-jewels;
the festival robes, and the mantles, and the shawls, and the satchels;
the hand-mirrors, and the fine linen, and the turbans, and the veils.
It shall happen that instead of sweet spices there shall be rottenness; and instead of a belt, a rope; and instead of well set hair, baldness; and instead of a robe, a girding of sackcloth; branding instead of beauty.
Your men shall fall by the sword, and your mighty in the war.
Her gates shall lament and mourn; and she shall be desolate and sit on the ground.
