Who has believed our message? and to whom has the arm of Yahweh been revealed?
For he grew up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he has no form nor comeliness; and when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.
He was despised, and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and as one from whom men hide their face he was despised; and we didn't respect him.
Surely he has borne our infirmities, and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken, struck of God, and afflicted.
But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was on him; and with his stripes we are healed.
All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned everyone to his own way; and Yahweh has laid on him the iniquity of us all.
He was oppressed, yet when he was afflicted he didn't open his mouth; as a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and as a sheep that before its shearers is mute, so he didn't open his mouth.
By oppression and judgment he was taken away; and as for his generation, who \among them\ considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living for the disobedience of my people to whom the stroke \was due\?
They made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death; although he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth.
Yet it pleased Yahweh to bruise him; he has put him to grief: when you shall make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see \his\ seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of Yahweh shall prosper in his hand.
He shall see of the travail of his soul, \and\ shall be satisfied: by the knowledge of himself shall my righteous servant justify many; and he shall bear their iniquities.
Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he poured out his soul to death, and was numbered with the transgressors: yet he bore the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.
