Married women, in the same way,  be submissive to your husbands, so that even if some of them  disbelieve the Message, they may,  apart from the Message, be won over by the daily life of their wives, after watching your daily life--
so full of reverence, and so blameless!
Your adornment ought not to be a merely outward thing--one of plaiting the hair,  putting on jewelry, or wearing beautiful dresses.
Instead of that, it should be  a new nature within--the imperishable ornament of a gentle and peaceful spirit, which is indeed precious in the sight of God.
For in ancient times also this was the way the holy women who set their hopes upon God used to adorn themselves, being submissive to their husbands.
Thus, for instance, Sarah obeyed Abraham,  acknowledging his authority over her. And you have become Sarah's children if you do what is right and permit nothing whatever to terrify you.
Married men, in the same way, live with your wives  with a clear recognition of the fact that they are weaker than you. Yet, since you are heirs with them of God's free gift of Life, treat them with honour; so that your prayers may not be hindered.
In conclusion, all of you should be of one mind, quick  to sympathize, kind to the brethren, tenderhearted, lowly-minded,
not requiting evil with evil nor abuse with abuse, but, on the contrary, giving a blessing in return, because a blessing is what you have been called by God to inherit.
For "He who wishes to be well-satisfied with life and see happy days--  let him restrain his tongue from evil, and his lips from deceitful words;
Let him turn from evil, and do good; Let him inquire for peace and go in pursuit of it.
For the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and His ears are open to their supplication; but the face of the Lord is set against evil-doers."
And who will be able to harm you, if you show yourselves zealous for that which is good?
But even if you suffer for righteousness' sake, you are to be envied. So do not be alarmed by  their threats, nor troubled;
but in your hearts consecrate Christ as Lord, being always ready to make your defence to any one who asks from you a reason for the hope which you cherish.
Yet argue modestly and cautiously, keeping your consciences free from guilt, so that, when you are spoken against, those who slander your good Christian lives may be put to shame.
For it is better that you should suffer for doing right, if such be God's will, than for doing evil;
because Christ also once for all  died for sins, the innocent One for the guilty many, in order to bring us to God. He was put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit,
in which  He also went and proclaimed His Message to the spirits that were in prison,
who in ancient times had been disobedient,  while God's longsuffering was patiently waiting in the days of Noah during the building of the Ark,  in which a few persons--eight in number--were brought safely through the water.
And, corresponding to that figure, the water of baptism now saves you--not the washing off of material defilement, but the craving of a good conscience after God--through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
who is at God's right hand, having gone into Heaven, angels and authorities and powers having been made subject to Him.
