Lo, mine eye hath seen all \this\, Mine ear hath heard and understood it.
What ye know, \the same\ do I know also: I am not inferior unto you.
Surely I would speak to the Almighty, And I desire to reason with God.
But ye are forgers of lies; Ye are all physicians of no value.
Oh that ye would altogether hold your peace! And it would be your wisdom.
Hear now my reasoning, And hearken to the pleadings of my lips.
Will ye speak unrighteously for God, And talk deceitfully for him?
Will ye show partiality to him? Will ye contend for God?
Is it good that he should search you out? Or as one deceiveth a man, will ye deceive him?
He will surely reprove you If ye do secretly show partiality.
Shall not his majesty make you afraid, And his dread fall upon you?
Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes, Your defences are defences of clay.
Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak; And let come on me what will.
Wherefore should I take my flesh in my teeth, And put my life in my hand?
Behold, he will slay me; I have no hope: Nevertheless I will maintain my ways before him.
This also shall be my salvation, That a godless man shall not come before him.
Hear diligently my speech, And let my declaration be in your ears.
Behold now, I have set my cause in order; I know that I am righteous.
Who is he that will contend with me? For then would I hold my peace and give up the ghost.
Only do not two things unto me; Then will I not hide myself from thy face:
Withdraw thy hand far from me; And let not thy terror make me afraid.
Then call thou, and I will answer; Or let me speak, and answer thou me.
How many are mine iniquities and sins? Make me to know my transgression and my sin.
Wherefore hidest thou thy face, And holdest me for thine enemy?
Wilt thou harass a driven leaf? And wilt thou pursue the dry stubble?
For thou writest bitter things against me, And makest me to inherit the iniquities of my youth:
Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, And markest all my paths; Thou settest a bound to the soles of my feet:
Though I am like a rotten thing that consumeth, Like a garment that is moth-eaten.
