Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said,
Can a man be profitable unto God? Surely he that is wise is profitable unto himself.
Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that thou art       righteous? Or is it gain \to him\, that thou makest thy ways perfect?
Is it for thy fear \of him\ that he reproveth thee, That he entereth with thee into judgment?
Is not thy wickedness great? Neither is there any end to thine iniquities.
For thou hast taken pledges of thy brother for nought, And stripped the naked of their clothing.
Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink, And thou hast withholden bread from the hungry.
But as for the mighty man, he had the earth; And the honorable man, he dwelt in it.
Thou hast sent widows away empty, And the arms of the fatherless have been broken.
Therefore snares are round about thee, And sudden fear troubleth thee,
Or darkness, so that thou canst not see, And abundance of waters cover thee.
Is not God in the height of heaven? And behold the height of the stars, how high they are!
And thou sayest, What doth God know? Can he judge through the thick darkness?
Thick clouds are a covering to him, so that he seeth not; And he walketh on the vault of heaven.
Wilt thou keep the old way Which wicked men have trodden?
Who were snatched away before their time, Whose foundation was poured out as a stream,
Who said unto God, Depart from us; And, What can the Almighty do for us?
Yet he filled their houses with good things: But the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
The righteous see it, and are glad; And the innocent laugh them to scorn,
\Saying\, Surely they that did rise up against us are       cut off, And the remnant of them the fire hath consumed.
Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: Thereby good shall come unto thee.
Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, And lay up his words in thy heart.
If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up, If thou put away unrighteousness far from thy tents.
And lay thou \thy\ treasure in the dust, And \the gold of\ Ophir among the stones of the brooks;
And the Almighty will be thy treasure, And precious silver unto thee.
For then shalt thou delight thyself in the Almighty, And shalt lift up thy face unto God.
Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he will hear       thee; And thou shalt pay thy vows.
Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be       established unto thee; And light shall shine upon thy ways.
When they cast \thee\ down, thou shalt say, \There is\       lifting up; And the humble person he will save.
He will deliver \even\ him that is not innocent: Yea, he shall be delivered through the cleanness of thy hands.
