And Job again took up his parable, and said,
Oh that I were as in the months of old, As in the days when God watched over me;
When his lamp shined upon my head, And by his light I walked through darkness;
As I was in the ripeness of my days, When the friendship of God was upon my tent;
When the Almighty was yet with me, And my children were about me;
When my steps were washed with butter, And the rock poured me out streams of oil!
When I went forth to the gate unto the city, When I prepared my seat in the street,
The young men saw me and hid themselves, And the aged rose up and stood;
The princes refrained from talking, And laid their hand on their mouth;
The voice of the nobles was hushed, And their tongue cleaved to the roof of their mouth.
For when the ear heard \me\, then it blessed me; And when the eye saw \me\, it gave witness unto me:
Because I delivered the poor that cried, The fatherless also, that had none to help him.
The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon       me; And I caused the widow`s heart to sing for joy.
I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: My justice was as a robe and a diadem.
I was eyes to the blind, And feet was I to the lame.
I was a father to the needy: And the cause of him that I knew not I searched out.
And I brake the jaws of the unrighteous, And plucked the prey out of his teeth.
Then I said, I shall die in my nest, And I shall multiply my days as the sand:
My root is spread out to the waters, And the dew lieth all night upon my branch;
My glory is fresh in me, And my bow is renewed in my hand.
Unto me men gave ear, and waited, And kept silence for my counsel.
After my words they spake not again; And my speech distilled upon them.
And they waited for me as for the rain; And they opened their mouth wide \as\ for the latter rain.
I smiled on them, when they had no confidence; And the light of my countenance they cast not down.
I chose out their way, and sat \as\ chief, And dwelt as a king in the army, As one that comforteth the mourners.
