Howbeit, Job, I pray thee, hear my speech, And hearken to all my words.
Behold now, I have opened my mouth; My tongue hath spoken in my mouth.
My words \shall utter\ the uprightness of my heart; And that which my lips know they shall speak sincerely.
The Spirit of God hath made me, And the breath of the Almighty giveth me life.
If thou canst, answer thou me; Set \thy words\ in order before me, stand forth.
Behold, I am toward God even as thou art: I also am formed out of the clay.
Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, Neither shall my pressure be heavy upon thee.
Surely thou hast spoken in my hearing, And I have heard the voice of \thy\ words, \saying\,
I am clean, without transgression; I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me:
Behold, he findeth occasions against me, He counteth me for his enemy:
He putteth my feet in the stocks, He marketh all my paths.
Behold, I will answer thee, in this thou art not just; For God is greater than man.
Why dost thou strive against him, For that he giveth not account of any of his matters?
For God speaketh once, Yea twice, \though man\ regardeth it not.
In a dream, in a vision of the night, When deep sleep falleth upon men, In slumberings upon the bed;
Then he openeth the ears of men, And sealeth their instruction,
That he may withdraw man \from his\ purpose, And hide pride from man;
He keepeth back his soul from the pit, And his life from perishing by the sword.
He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, And with continual strife in his bones;
So that his life abhorreth bread, And his soul dainty food.
His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen; And his bones that were not seen stick out.
Yea, his soul draweth near unto the pit, And his life to the destroyers.
If there be with him an angel, An interpreter, one among a thousand, To show unto man what is right for him;
Then \God\ is gracious unto him, and saith, Deliver him from going down to the pit, I have found a ransom.
His flesh shall be fresher than a child`s; He returneth to the days of his youth.
He prayeth unto God, and he is favorable unto him, So that he seeth his face with joy: And he restoreth unto man his righteousness.
He singeth before men, and saith, I have sinned, and perverted that which was right, And it profited me not:
He hath redeemed my soul from going into the pit, And my life shall behold the light.
Lo, all these things doth God work, Twice, \yea\ thrice, with a man,
To bring back his soul from the pit, That he may be enlightened with the light of the living.
Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me: Hold thy peace, and I will speak.
If thou hast anything to say, answer me: Speak, for I desire to justify thee.
If not, hearken thou unto me: Hold thy peace, and I will teach thee wisdom.
