Yea, at this my heart trembleth, And is moved out of its place.
Hear, oh, hear the noise of his voice, And the sound that goeth out of his mouth.
He sendeth it forth under the whole heaven, And his lightening unto the ends of the earth.
After it a voice roareth; He thundereth with the voice of his majesty; And he restraineth not \the lightnings\ when his voice is heard.
God thundereth marvellously with his voice; Great things doeth he, which we cannot comprehend.
For he saith to the snow, Fall thou on the earth; Likewise to the shower of rain, And to the showers of his mighty rain.
He sealeth up the hand of every man, That all men whom he hath made may know \it\.
Then the beasts go into coverts, And remain in their dens.
Out of the chamber \of the south\ cometh the storm, And cold out of the north.
By the breath of God ice is given; And the breadth of the waters is straitened.
Yea, he ladeth the thick cloud with moisture; He spreadeth abroad the cloud of his lightning:
And it is turned round about by his guidance, That they may do whatsoever he commandeth them Upon the face of the habitable world,
Whether it be for correction, or for his land, Or for lovingkindness, that he cause it to come.
Hearken unto this, O Job: Stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God.
Dost thou know how God layeth \his charge\ upon them, And causeth the lightning of his cloud to shine?
Dost thou know the balancings of the clouds, The wondrous works of him who is perfect in knowledge?
How thy garments are warm, When the earth is still by reason of the south \wind\?
Canst thou with him spread out the sky, Which is strong as a molten mirror?
Teach us what we shall say unto him; \For\ we cannot set \our speech\ in order by reason of darkness.
Shall it be told him that I would speak? Or should a man wish that he were swallowed up?
And now men see not the light which is bright in the       skies; But the wind passeth, and cleareth them.
Out of the north cometh golden splendor: God hath upon him terrible majesty.
\Touching\ the Almighty, we cannot find him out  He is excellent in power; And in justice and plenteous righteousness he will not afflict.
Men do therefore fear him: He regardeth not any that are wise of heart.
