A \good\ name is better than precious ointment, and the day  of death than the day of one`s birth.
It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to  the house of feasting: in that that is the end of all men, and  the living taketh it to heart.
Vexation is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the  countenance the heart is made better.
The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the  heart of fools in the house of mirth.
It is better for a man to hear the rebuke of the wise, than  to hear the song of fools.
For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the  laughter of the fool. This also is vanity.
Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad, and a gift  destroyeth the heart.
Better is the end of a thing than its beginning; better is a  patient spirit than a proud spirit.
Be not hasty in thy spirit to be vexed; for vexation resteth  in the bosom of fools.
Say not, How is it that the former days were better than  these? for thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this.
Wisdom is as good as an inheritance, and profitable to them  that see the sun.
For wisdom is a defence \as\ money is a defence; but the  excellency of knowledge is, \that\ wisdom maketh them that  possess it to live.
Consider the work of God; for who can make straight what he  hath made crooked?
In the day of prosperity enjoy good, and in the day of  adversity consider: God hath also set the one beside the other,  to the end that man should find out nothing \of what shall be\  after him.
All \this\ have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a  righteous \man\ that perisheth by his righteousness, and there  is a wicked \man\ that prolongeth \his days\ by his wickedness.
Be not righteous overmuch; neither make thyself overwise:  why shouldest thou destroy thyself?
Be not overmuch wicked, neither be thou foolish: why  shouldest thou die before thy time?
It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea, also  from that withdraw not thy hand: for he that feareth God cometh  forth from them all.
Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty \men\  that are in a city.
Surely there is not a righteous man upon earth, that doeth  good and sinneth not.
Also give not heed unto all words that are spoken, lest  thou hear thy servant curse thee.
For also thine own heart knoweth that oftentimes thou  thyself likewise hast cursed others.
All this have I tried by wisdom: I said, I will be wise;  but it was far from me.
Whatever hath been, is far off, and exceeding deep: who  will find it out?
I turned, I and my heart, to know, and to search, and to  seek out wisdom and reason, and to know wickedness to be folly,  and foolishness to be madness;
and I found more bitter than death the woman whose heart is  nets and snares, \and\ whose hands are bands: whoso pleaseth  God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be caught by  her.
See this which I have found, saith the Preacher,  \searching\ one by one to find out the reason;
which my soul yet seeketh, and I have not found: one man  among a thousand have I found, but a woman among all those have  I not found.
Only see this which I have found: that God made man  upright, but they have sought out many devices.
