Looking up He saw the people throwing their gifts into the Treasury--the rich people.
He also saw a poor widow dropping in two farthings,
and He said, "In truth I tell you that this widow, so poor, has thrown in more than any of them.
For from what they could well spare they have all of them contributed to the offerings, but she in her need has thrown in all she had to live on."
When some were remarking about the Temple, how it was embellished with beautiful stones and dedicated gifts, He said,
"As to these things which you now admire, the time is coming when there will not be one stone left here upon another which will not be pulled down."
"Rabbi, when will this be?" they asked Him, "and what will be the token given when these things are about to take place?"
"See to it," He replied, "that you are not misled; for many will come  assuming my name and professing, `I am He,' or saying, `The time is close at hand.' Do not go and follow them.
But when you hear of wars and turmoils, be not afraid; for these things must happen first, but the end does not come immediately."
Then He said to them, "Nation will rise in arms against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.
And there will be great earthquakes, and in places famines and pestilence; and there will be terrible sights and wonderful tokens from Heaven.
"But before all these things happen they will lay hands on you and persecute you. They will deliver you up to synagogues and to prison, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my sake.
In the end all this will be evidence of your fidelity.
"Make up your minds, however, not to prepare a defence beforehand,
for I will give you utterance and wisdom which none of your opponents will be able to withstand or reply to.
You will be betrayed even by parents, brothers, relatives, friends; and some of you they will put to death.
You will be the objects of universal hatred because you are called by my name;
and yet not a hair of your heads shall perish.
By your patient endurance you will purchase your  lives.
"But when you see Jerusalem with armies encamping round her on every side, then be certain that her  overthrow is close at hand.
Then let those who shall be in Judaea escape to the hills; let those who are in the city leave it, and those who are in the country not enter in.
For those are the days of vengeance and  of fulfilling all that is written.
"Alas for the women who at that time are with child or who have infants; for there will be great distress  in the land, and anger towards this People.
They will fall  by the sword, or be carried off into slavery among all the Gentiles.  And Jerusalem will be trampled under foot by the  Gentiles, till the appointed times of the  Gentiles have expired.
"There will be  signs in sun, moon, and stars; and on earth anguish among the nations in their bewilderment at the roaring of the sea and its billows;
while men's hearts are fainting for fear, and for anxious expectation of what is coming on the world. For the  forces which control the heavens will be disordered and disturbed.
And then will they  see the Son of Man coming in a cloud  with great power and glory.
But when all this is beginning to take place, grieve no longer. Lift up your heads, because your  deliverance is drawing near."
And He spoke a parable to them. "See," He said, "the fig-tree and all the trees.
As soon as they have shot out their leaves, you know at a glance that summer is now near.
So also, when you see these things happening, you may be sure that the Kingdom of God is near.
I tell you in solemn truth that the present generation will certainly not pass away without all these things having first taken place.
Earth and sky will pass away, but it is certain that my words will not pass away.
"But take heed to yourselves, lest your  souls be weighed down with  self-indulgence and drunkenness or the anxieties of this life, and that day come upon you, suddenly, like a falling trap;
for it will come on all dwellers on the face of the whole  earth.
But beware of slumbering; and every moment pray that you may be fully strengthened to escape from all these coming evils, and to take your stand in the presence of the Son of Man."
His habit at this time was to teach in the Temple by day, but to go out and spend the night on the Mount called  the Oliveyard.
And all the people came to Him in the Temple, early in the morning, to listen to Him.
