Nor does any one after drinking old wine wish for new; for he says, `The old is  better.'"
Now on the  second-first Sabbath while He was passing through the wheatfields, His disciples were plucking the ears and rubbing them with their hands to eat the grain.
And some of the Pharisees asked, "Why are you doing what the Law forbids on the Sabbath?"
"Have you  never read so much as this," answered Jesus--"what David did when he and his followers were hungry;
how he entered the house of God and took and ate the Presented Loaves and gave some to his followers--loaves which none but the Priests are allowed to eat?"
"The Son of Man," He added, "is Lord of the Sabbath  also."
On another Sabbath He had gone to the synagogue and was teaching there; and in the congregation was a man whose right arm was withered.
The Scribes and the Pharisees were on the watch to see whether He would cure him on the Sabbath that they might be able to bring an accusation against Him.
He knew their thoughts, and said to the man with the withered arm, "Rise, and  stand there in the middle." And he rose and stood there.
Then Jesus said to them, "I put it to you all whether we are allowed to do good on the Sabbath, or to do evil; to save a life, or to destroy it."
And looking round upon them all He said to the man, "Stretch out your arm." He did so, and the arm was restored.
But they were filled with madness, and began to discuss with one another what they should do to Jesus.
About that time He went out on one occasion into the  hill country to pray; and He remained all night in  prayer to God.
When it was day, He called His disciples; and He selected from among them twelve, whom He also named Apostles.
These were Simon, to whom also He  had given the name of Peter, and Andrew his brother; James and John; Philip and Bartholomew;
Matthew and Thomas; James the son of Alphaeus and Simon called the Zealot;
James's relative Judas, and Judas Iscariot who proved to be a traitor.
With these He came down  till He reached a level place, where there was a great crowd of His disciples, and a multitude of people from every part of Judaea, from Jerusalem, and from the sea-side district of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear Him and to be cured of their diseases;
and those who were tormented by foul spirits were cured.
The whole crowd were eager to touch Him, because power went forth from him and cured every one.
Then fixing His eyes upon His disciples, Jesus said to them, "Blessed are you poor, because the Kingdom of God is yours.
"Blessed are you who hunger now, because your hunger shall be satisfied. "Blessed are you who now weep aloud, because you shall laugh.
"Blessed are you when men shall hate you and exclude you from their society and insult you, and spurn your very names as evil things, for the Son of Man's sake.
"Be glad at such a time, and dance for joy; for your reward is great in Heaven; for that is just the way their forefathers behaved to the Prophets!
"But  alas for you rich men, because you already have your consolation!
"Alas for you who now have plenty to eat, because you will be hungry! "Alas for you who laugh now, because you will mourn and weep aloud!
"Alas for you when men shall all have spoken well of you; for that is just the way their forefathers behaved to the false Prophets!
"But to you who are listening to me I say, Love your enemies; seek the welfare of those who hate you;
bless those who curse you; pray for those who revile you.
To him who gives you a blow on one side of the face offer the other side also; and to him who is robbing you of your outer garment refuse not the under one also.
To every one who asks, give; and from him who takes away your property, do not demand it back.
And behave to your fellow men just as you would have them behave to you.
"If you love those who love you, what credit is it to you? Why, even bad men love those who love them.
And if you are  kind to those who are kind to you, what credit is it to you?  Even bad men act thus.
And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what credit is it to you? Even bad men lend to their fellows so as to receive back an equal amount.
Nevertheless love your enemies, be beneficent; and lend without hoping for any repayment. Then your recompense shall be great, and you will be sons of the Most High; for He is kind to the ungrateful and wicked.
Be compassionate just as your Father is compassionate.
"Judge not, and you shall not be judged; condemn not, and you shall not be condemned;  pardon, and you shall be  pardoned;
give, and gifts shall be bestowed on you. Full measure, pressed, shaken down, and running over, shall they pour into your laps; for with the same measure that you use they shall measure to you in return."
He also spoke to them in figurative language. "Can a blind man lead a blind man?" He asked; "would not both fall into the ditch?
There is no disciple who is superior to his teacher; but every one whose instruction is complete will be like his teacher.
"And why look at the splinter in your brother's eye instead of giving careful attention to the beam in your own?
How can you say to your brother, `Brother, let me take that splinter out of your eye,' when all the while you yourself do not see the beam in your own eye? Vain pretender! take the beam out of your own eye first, and then you will see clearly to take the splinter out of your brother's eye.
"There is no good tree that yields unsound fruit, nor again any unsound tree that yields good fruit.
Every tree is known by its own fruit. It is not from thorns that men gather figs, nor from the bramble that they can get a bunch of grapes.
A good man from the good stored up in his heart brings out what is good; and an evil man from the evil stored up brings out what is evil; for from the overflow of his heart his mouth speaks.
"And why do you all call me `Master, Master' and yet not do what I tell you?
Every one who comes to me and listens to my words and puts them in practice, I will show you whom he is like.
He is like a man building a house, who  digs and goes deep, and lays the foundation on the rock; and when a flood comes, the torrent bursts upon that house, but is unable to shake it, because it is securely built.
