But he who has heard and not practised is like a man who has built a house upon the soft soil without a foundation, against which the torrent bursts, and immediately it collapses, and terrible is the wreck and ruin of that house."
After He had finished teaching all these things  in the hearing of the people, He went into Capernaum.
Here the  servant of a certain Captain, a man dear to his master, was ill and at the point of death;
and the Captain, hearing about Jesus, sent to Him some of the Jewish Elders, begging Him to come and  restore his servant to health.
And they, when they came to Jesus, earnestly entreated Him, pleading, "He deserves to have this favour granted him,
for he loves our nation, and at his own expense he built our synagogue for us."
Then Jesus went with them. But when He was not far from the house, the Captain sent friends to Him with the message: "Sir, do not trouble to come.  I am not worthy of having you come under my roof;
and therefore I did not deem myself worthy to come to you. Only speak the word, and  let my  young man be cured.
For I too am a man obedient to authority, and have soldiers under me; and I say to one, `Go,' and he goes; to another, `Come,' and he comes; and to my slave, `Do this or that,' and he does it."
Jesus listened to the Captain's message and was astonished at him, and He turned and said to the crowd that followed Him, "I tell you that not even in Israel have I found faith like that."
And the friends who had been sent, on returning to the house, found the servant in perfect health.
Shortly afterwards He went to a town called Nain, attended by  His disciples and a great crowd of people.
And just as He reached the gate of the town, they happened to be bringing out for burial a dead man who was his mother's only son; and she was a widow; and a great number of the townspeople were with her.
The Lord saw her, was moved with pity for her, and said to her, "Do not weep."
Then He went close and touched the bier, and the bearers halted. "Young man," He said, "I command you, wake!"
The dead man sat up and began to speak; and He restored him to his mother.
All were awe-struck, and they gave glory to God--some saying, "A Prophet, a great Prophet, has  risen up among us." Others said, "God has not forgotten His People."
And the report of what Jesus had done spread through the whole of Judaea and in all the surrounding districts.
John's disciples brought him an account of all these things;
so John called two of his disciples and sent them to the Lord. "Are you the Coming One?" he asked, "or is there  another that we are to expect?"
The men came to Jesus and said, "John the Baptist has sent us to you with this question: `Are you the Coming One, or is there another that we are to expect?'"
He immediately cured many of diseases, severe pain, and evil spirits, and to many who were blind He gave the gift of sight.
Then He answered the messengers, "Go and report to John what you have seen and heard. Blind men  receive sight, the lame walk, lepers are purified, deaf persons hear, the dead are  raised to life, the poor have the Good News proclaimed to them.
And blessed is every one who does not stumble and fall because of my claims."
When John's messengers were gone, He proceeded to say to the multitude concerning John, "What did you go out into the Desert to gaze at? A reed waving in the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man wearing luxurious clothes? People who are gorgeously dressed and live in luxury are found in palaces.
But what did you go out to see? A Prophet? Aye, I tell you, and far more than a Prophet.
John is the man about whom it is written, `See, I am sending My messenger before thy face, and he shall make ready thy way before thee.'
"I tell you that among all of women born there is not one greater than John. Yet one who is of lower rank in the Kingdom of God is greater than he.
And all the people, including the tax-gatherers, when they listened to him upheld the righteousness of God, by being baptized with John's baptism.
But the Pharisees and expounders of the Law have frustrated  God's purpose as to their own lives, by refusing to be  baptized.
"To what then shall I compare the men of the present generation, and what do they resemble?
They are like children sitting in the public square and calling out to one another, `We have played the flute to you, and you have not danced: we have sung dirges, and you have not shown sorrow.'
For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say, `He has a demon!'
The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, `Look, there is a man who is overfond of eating and drinking--he is a friend of tax-gatherers and notorious sinners!'
But wisdom  is justified by all  who are truly wise."
Now one of the Pharisees  repeatedly invited Him to a meal at his house; so He entered the house and reclined at the table.
And there was a woman in the town who was a notorious sinner. Having learnt that Jesus  was at table in the Pharisee's house she brought a flask of perfume,
and, standing  behind close to His feet, weeping, began to wet His feet with her tears; and with her hair she wiped the tears away again, while she lovingly kissed His feet and poured the perfume over them.
Noticing this, the Pharisee, His host, said to himself,  "This man, if he were really a Prophet, would know who and what sort of person this woman is who is touching him--and would know that she is an immoral woman."
In answer to  his thoughts Jesus said to him, "Simon, I have a word to say to you."  "Rabbi, say on," he replied.
"There were once two men in debt to one money-lender," said Jesus; "one owed him five hundred shillings and the other fifty.
But neither of them could pay anything; so he freely forgave them both. Tell me, then, which of them will love him most?"
"I suppose," replied Simon, "the one to whom he forgave most." "You have judged rightly," Jesus rejoined.
Then turning towards the woman He said to Simon, "Do you see this woman? I came into your house: you gave me no water for my feet; but she has made my feet wet with her tears, and then wiped the tears away with her hair.
No kiss did you give me; but she from the moment I came in has not left off tenderly kissing my feet.
No oil did you pour even on my head; but she has poured perfume upon my feet.
This is the reason why I tell you that her sins, her many sins,  are forgiven--because she has loved much; but he who is forgiven little, loves little."
And He said to her, "Your sins  are forgiven."
Then the other guests began to say to themselves, "Who can this man be who even forgives sins?"
