Thus says Yahweh: For three transgressions of Moab, yes, for four, I will not turn away the punishment of it; because he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime:
but I will send a fire on Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kerioth; and Moab shall die with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet;
and I will cut off the judge from the midst of it, and will kill all the princes of it with him, says Yahweh.
Thus says Yahweh: For three transgressions of Judah, yes, for four, I will not turn away the punishment of it; because they have rejected the law of Yahweh, and have not kept his statutes, and their lies have caused them to err, after which their fathers did walk:
but I will send a fire on Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem.
Thus says Yahweh: For three transgressions of Israel, yes, for four, I will not turn away the punishment of it; because they have sold the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes
those who pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turn aside the way of the humble: and a man and his father go to the \same\ maiden, to profane my holy name:
and they lay themselves down beside every altar on clothes taken in pledge; and in the house of their God they drink the wine of such as have been fined.
Yet destroyed I the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.
Also I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite.
I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for Nazirites. Is it not even thus, you children of Israel? says Yahweh.
But you gave the Nazirites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, Don't prophesy.
Behold, I will press \you\ in your place, as a cart presses that is full of sheaves.
Flight shall perish from the swift; and the strong shall not strengthen his force; neither shall the mighty deliver himself;
neither shall he stand who handles the bow; and he who is swift of foot shall not deliver \himself\; neither shall he who rides the horse deliver himself;
and he who is courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, says Yahweh.
