Hear this word that Yahweh has spoken against you, children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying,
You only have I known of all the families of the earth: therefore I will visit on you all your iniquities.
Shall two walk together, except they have agreed?
Will a lion roar in the forest, when he has no prey? will a young lion cry out of his den, if he have taken nothing?
Can a bird fall in a snare on the earth, where no gin is \set\ for him? shall a snare spring up from the ground, and have taken nothing at all?
Shall the trumpet be blown in a city, and the people not be afraid? shall evil befall a city, and Yahweh has not done it?
Surely the Lord Yahweh will do nothing, except he reveal his secret to his servants the prophets.
The lion has roared; who will not fear? The Lord Yahweh has spoken; who can but prophesy?
Publish you in the palaces at Ashdod, and in the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, Assemble yourselves on the mountains of Samaria, and see what great tumults are therein, and what oppressions in the midst of it.
For they don't know to do right, says Yahweh, who store up violence and robbery in their palaces.
Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: An adversary \there shall be\, even round about the land; and he shall bring down your strength from you, and your palaces shall be plundered.
Thus says Yahweh: As the shepherd rescues out of the mouth of the lion two legs, or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel be rescued that sit in Samaria in the corner of a couch, and on the silken cushions of a bed.
Hear you, and testify against the house of Jacob, says the Lord Yahweh, the God of hosts.
For in the day that I shall visit the transgressions of Israel on him, I will also visit the altars of Bethel; and the horns of the altar shall be cut off, and fall to the ground.
I will strike the winter-house with the summer-house; and the houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall have an end, says Yahweh.
