Hear this word, you cattle of Bashan, that are in the mountain of Samaria, that oppress the poor, that crush the needy, that tell their lords, Bring, and let us drink.
The Lord Yahweh has sworn by his holiness, that behold, the days shall come on you, that they shall take you away with hooks, and your residue with fish-hooks.
You shall go out at the breaches, everyone straight before her; and you shall cast \yourselves\ into Harmon, says Yahweh.
Come to Bethel, and disobey; to Gilgal, \and\ multiply disobedience; and bring your sacrifices every morning, \and\ your tithes every three days;
and offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, and proclaim freewill-offerings and publish them: for this pleases you, you children of Israel, says the Lord Yahweh.
I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and want of bread in all your places; yet have you not returned to me, says Yahweh.
I also have withheld the rain from you, when there were yet three months to the harvest; and I caused it to rain on one city, and caused it not to rain on another city: one piece was rained on, and the piece whereupon it didn't rain withered.
So two or three cities wandered to one city to drink water, and were not satisfied: yet have you not returned to me, says Yahweh.
I have struck you with blasting and mildew: the multitude of your gardens and your vineyards and your fig-trees and your olive-trees has the swarming locust devoured: yet have you not returned to me, says Yahweh.
I have sent among you the pestilence after the manner of Egypt: your young men have I slain with the sword, and have carried away your horses; and I have made the stench of your camp to come up even into your nostrils: yet have you not returned to me, says Yahweh.
I have overthrown \cities\ among you, as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were as a brand plucked out of the burning: yet have you not returned to me, says Yahweh.
Therefore thus will I do to you, Israel; \and\ because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, Israel.
For, behold, he who forms the mountains, and creates the wind, and declares to man what is his thought; that makes the morning darkness, and treads on the high places of the Earth Yahweh, the God of hosts, is his name.
