Thus the Lord Yahweh showed me: and, behold, he formed locusts in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth; and, behold, it was the latter growth after the king's harvest.
It happened that, when they made an end of eating the grass of the land, then I said, Lord Yahweh, forgive, I beg you: how shall Jacob stand? for he is small.
Yahweh repented concerning this: It shall not be, says Yahweh.
Thus the Lord Yahweh showed me: and, behold, the Lord Yahweh called to content by fire; and it devoured the great deep, and would have eaten up the land.
Then said I, Lord Yahweh, cease, I beg you: how shall Jacob stand? for he is small.
Yahweh repented concerning this: this also shall not be, says the Lord Yahweh.
Thus he showed me: and, behold, the Lord stood beside a wall made by a plumb-line, with a plumb-line in his hand.
Yahweh said to me, Amos, what see you? I said, A plumb-line. Then said the Lord, Behold, I will set a plumb-line in the midst of my people Israel; I will not again pass by them any more;
and the high places of Isaac shall be desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.
Then Amaziah the priest of Beth-el sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words.
For thus Amos says, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.
Also Amaziah said to Amos, you seer, go, flee you away into the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there:
but don't prophesy again any more at Bethel; for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is a royal house.
Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet's son; but I was a herdsman, and a dresser of sycamore-trees:
and Yahweh took me from following the flock, and Yahweh said to me, Go, prophesy to my people Israel.
Now therefore hear you the word of Yahweh: You say, Don't prophesy against Israel, and don't drop \your word\ against the house of Isaac;
therefore thus says Yahweh: Your wife shall be a prostitute in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be divided by line; and you yourself shall die in a land that is unclean, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.
