Give thanks to Yahweh,    For he is good, For his lovingkindness endures forever.
Let the redeemed by Yahweh say so,    Whom he has redeemed from the hand of the adversary,
Gathered out of the lands,    From the east and from the west,    From the north and from the south.
They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way.    They found no city to live in.
Hungry and thirsty,    Their soul fainted in them.
Then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble,    And he delivered them out of their distresses,
He led them also by a straight way,    That they might go to a city to live in.
Let them praise Yahweh for his lovingkindness,    For his wonderful works to the children of men!
For he satisfies the longing soul.    He fills the hungry soul with good.
Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death,    Being bound in affliction and iron,
Because they rebelled against the words of God,    And condemned the counsel of the Most High.
Therefore he brought down their heart with labor.    They fell down, and there was none to help.
Then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble,    And he saved them out of their distresses.
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death,    And broke their bonds in sunder.
Let them praise Yahweh for his lovingkindness,    For his wonderful works to the children of men!
For he has broken the gates of brass,    And cut through bars of iron.
Fools are afflicted because of their disobedience,    And because of their iniquities.
Their soul abhors all kinds of food.    They draw near to the gates of death.
Then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble,    He saves them out of their distresses.
He sends his word, and heals them,    And delivers them from their graves.
Let them praise Yahweh for his lovingkindness,    For his wonderful works to the children of men!
Let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving,    And declare his works with singing.
Those who go down to the sea in ships,    Who do business in great waters;
These see Yahweh's works,    And his wonders in the deep.
For he commands, and raises the stormy wind,    Which lifts up its waves.
They mount up to the sky; they go down again to the depths.    Their soul melts away because of trouble.
They reel back and forth, and stagger like a drunken man,    And are at their wits' end.
Then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble,    He brings them out of their distress.
He makes the storm a calm,    So that its waves are still.
Then are they glad because it is calm,    So he brings them to their desired haven.
Let them praise Yahweh for his lovingkindness,    For his wonderful works to the children of men!
Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people,    And praise him in the seat of the elders.
He turns rivers into a desert,    Water springs into a thirsty ground,
And a fruitful land into a salt waste,    For the wickedness of those who dwell in it.
He turns a desert into a pool of water,    And a dry land into water springs.
There he makes the hungry to live,    That they may prepare a city to live in,
Sow fields, plant vineyards,    And reap the fruits of increase.
He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly.    He doesn't allow their cattle to decrease.
Again, they are diminished and bowed down    Through oppression, trouble, and sorrow.
He pours contempt on princes,    And causes them to wander in a trackless waste.
Yet he lifts the needy out of their affliction,    And increases their families like a flock.
The upright will see it, and be glad.    All the wicked will shut their mouths.
Whoever is wise will pay attention to these things.    They will consider the lovingkindnesses of Yahweh.      
