For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. <BR>God of my praise, don't remain silent,
For they have opened the mouth of the wicked and the mouth       of deceit against me.    They have spoken to me with a lying tongue.
They have also surrounded me with words of hatred,    And fought against me without a cause.
In return for my love, they are my adversaries;    But I am in prayer.
They have rewarded me evil for good,    And hatred for my love.
Set a wicked man over him.    Let an adversary stand at his right hand.
When he is judged, let him come forth guilty.    Let his prayer be turned into sin.
Let his days be few.    Let another take his office.
Let his children be fatherless,    And his wife a widow.
Let his children be wandering beggars.    Let them be sought from their ruins.
Let the creditor seize all that he has.    Let strangers plunder the fruit of his labor.
Let there be none to extend kindness to him,    Neither let there be any to have pity on his fatherless children.
Let his posterity be cut off.    In the generation following let their name be blotted out.
Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered by Yahweh.    Don't let the sin of his mother be blotted out.
Let them be before Yahweh continually,    That he may cut off the memory of them from the earth;
Because he didn't remember to show kindness,    But persecuted the poor and needy man,    The broken in heart, to kill them.
Yes, he loved cursing, and it came to him.    He didn't delight in blessing, and it was far from him.
He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment.    It came into his inward parts like water,    Like oil into his bones.
Let it be to him as the clothing with which he covers himself,    For the belt that is always around him.
This is the reward of my adversaries from Yahweh,    Of those who speak evil against my soul.
But deal with me, Yahweh the Lord, for your name's sake,    Because your lovingkindness is good, deliver me;
For I am poor and needy.    My heart is wounded within me.
I fade away like an evening shadow.    I am shaken off as the locust.
My knees are weak through fasting.    My body is thin and lacks fat.
I have also become a reproach to them.    When they see me, they shake their head.
Help me, Yahweh, my God.    Save me according to your lovingkindness;
That they may know that this is your hand;    That you, Yahweh, have done it.
They may curse, but you bless.    When they arise, they will be put to shame,    But your servant shall rejoice.
Let my adversaries be clothed with dishonor.    Let them cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe.
I will give great thanks to Yahweh with my mouth.    Yes, I will praise him among the multitude.
For he will stand at the right hand of the needy,    To save him from those who judge his soul.    
