A contemplation by Ethan, the Ezrahite.
I will sing of the lovingkindness of Yahweh forever.    With my mouth, I will make known your faithfulness to all       generations.
I indeed declare, "Love stands firm forever.    You established the heavens.    Your faithfulness is in them."
"I have made a covenant with my chosen one,    I have sworn to David, my servant,
'I will establish your seed forever,    And build up your throne to all generations.'" Selah.
The heavens will praise your wonders, Yahweh;    Your faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones.
For who in the skies can be compared to Yahweh?    Who among the sons of the heavenly beings is like Yahweh,
A very awesome God in the council of the holy ones,    To be feared above all those who are around him?
Yahweh, God of hosts, who is a mighty one, like you?    Yah, your faithfulness is around you.
You rule the pride of the sea.    When its waves rise up, you calm them.
You have broken Rahab in pieces, like one of the slain.    You have scattered your enemies with your mighty arm.
The heavens are yours, the earth also is yours;    The world and its fullness. You have founded them.
The north and the south, you have created them.    Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name.
You have a mighty arm.    Your hand is strong, and your right hand is exalted.
Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne.    Lovingkindness and truth go before your face.
Blessed are the people who learn to acclaim you.    They walk in the light of your presence, Yahweh.
In your name do they rejoice all day.    In your righteousness, they are exalted.
For you are the glory of their strength.    In your favor, our horn will be exalted.
For our shield belongs to Yahweh;    Our king to the Holy One of Israel.
Then you spoke in vision to your saints,    And said, "I have bestowed strength on the warrior.    I have exalted a young man from the people.
I have found David, my servant.    I have anointed him with my holy oil,
With whom my hand shall be established.    My arm will also strengthen him.
No enemy will tax him.    No wicked man will oppress him.
I will beat down his adversaries before him,    And strike those who hate him.
But my faithfulness and my lovingkindness will be with him.    In my name, his horn will be exalted.
I will set his hand also on the sea,    And his right hand on the rivers.
He will call to me, 'You are my Father,    My God, and the rock of my salvation!'
I will also appoint him my firstborn,    The highest of the kings of the earth.
I will keep my lovingkindness for him forevermore.    My covenant will stand firm with him.
I will also make his seed endure forever,    And his throne as the days of heaven.
If his children forsake my law,    And don't walk in my ordinances;
If they break my statutes,    And don't keep my commandments;
Then I will punish their sin with the rod,    And their iniquity with stripes.
But I will not completely take my lovingkindness from him,    Nor allow my faithfulness to fail.
I will not break my covenant,    Nor alter what my lips have uttered.
Once have I sworn by my holiness,    I will not lie to David.
His seed will endure forever,    His throne like the sun before me.
It will be established forever like the moon,    The faithful witness in the sky." Selah.
But you have rejected and spurned.    You have been angry with your anointed.
You have renounced the covenant of your servant.    You have defiled his crown in the dust.
You have broken down all his hedges.    You have brought his strongholds to ruin.
All who pass by the way rob him. He has become a reproach to his neighbors.
You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries.    You have made all of his enemies rejoice.
Yes, you turn back the edge of his sword,    And haven't supported him in battle.
You have ended his splendor,    And thrown his throne down to the ground.
You have shortened the days of his youth.    You have covered him with shame. Selah.
How long, Yahweh?    Will you hide yourself forever?    Will your wrath burn like fire?
Remember how short my time is!    For what vanity have you created all the children of men!
What man is he who shall live and not see death,    Who shall deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Selah.
Lord, where are your former lovingkindnesses,    Which you swore to David in your faithfulness?
Remember, Lord, the reproach of your servants,    How I bear in my heart the taunts of all the mighty peoples,
With which your enemies have mocked, Yahweh,    With which they have mocked the footsteps of your anointed one.
Blessed be Yahweh forevermore. Amen, and Amen.   
