And these are the chief fathers, and their genealogy, who  went up with me from Babylon in the reign of Artaxerxes the  king.
Of the children of Phinehas, Gershom; of the children of  Ithamar, Daniel; of the children of David, Hattush;
of the children of Shecaniah, of the children of Parosh,  Zechariah, and with him were registered by genealogy of the  males a hundred and fifty.
Of the children of Pahath-Moab, Elihoenai the son of  Zerahiah, and with him two hundred males.
Of the children of Shechaniah, the son of Jahaziel, and with  him three hundred males.
And of the children of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan, and  with him fifty males.
And of the children of Elam, Isaiah the son of Athaliah, and  with him seventy males.
And of the children of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of  Michael, and with him eighty males.
Of the children of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel, and with  him two hundred and eighteen males.
And of the children of Shelomith, the son of Josiphiah, and  with him a hundred and sixty males.
And of the children of Bebai, Zechariah the son of Bebai,  and with him twenty-eight males.
And of the children of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan,  and with him a hundred and ten males.
And of the children of Adonikam, the last ones, whose names  are these: Eliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah, and with them sixty  males.
And of the children of Bigvai, Uthai and Zabbud, and with  them seventy males.
And I gathered them together at the river that runs to  Ahava; and there we encamped three days; and I surveyed the  people and the priests, and found none of the sons of Levi  there.
And I sent for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, and for  Elnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Nathan, and  for Zechariah, and for Meshullam, chief men, and for Joiarib  and for Elnathan, men of understanding.
And I gave them a commission to Iddo the chief, at the  place Casiphia, and I put words in their mouths to say to Iddo  \and\ his brethren the Nethinim, at the place Casiphia, that  they should bring to us ministers for the house of our God.
And by the good hand of our God upon us, they brought us a  man of understanding, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi,  the son of Israel, namely, Sherebiah, with his sons and his  brethren, eighteen;
and Hashabiah, and with him Isaiah of the sons of Merari,  his brethren and their sons, twenty;
and of the Nethinim, whom David and the princes had  appointed for the service of the Levites, two hundred and  twenty Nethinim: all of them were expressed by name.
And I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava, that we  might humble ourselves before our God, to seek of him a right  way for us, and for our little ones, and for all our substance.
For I was ashamed to require of the king a band of soldiers  and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way; for we  had spoken to the king saying, The hand of our God is upon all  them for good that seek him; but his power and his anger is  against all them that forsake him.
And we fasted, and besought our God for this; and he was  entreated of us.
And I separated twelve of the chiefs of the priests,  Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their brethren with them,
and I weighed to them the silver and the gold and the  vessels, the heave-offering for the house of our God, which the  king and his counsellors and his princes, and all Israel  present, had offered.
And I weighed into their hand six hundred and fifty talents  of silver; and silver vessels a hundred talents, \and\ of gold  a hundred talents;
and twenty basons of gold, of a thousand darics; and two  vessels of shining copper, precious as gold.
And I said to them, Ye are holy unto Jehovah; the vessels  also are holy; and the silver and the gold is a voluntary  offering to Jehovah the God of your fathers.
Watch and keep \them\ until ye weigh them before the chiefs  of the priests and the Levites, and the chiefs of the fathers  of Israel, at Jerusalem, in the chambers of the house of  Jehovah.
And the priests and the Levites received by weight the  silver and the gold and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem  unto the house of our God.
And we departed from the river Ahava on the twelfth of the  first month, to go to Jerusalem; and the hand of our God was  upon us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy, and of  such as lay in wait by the way.
And we came to Jerusalem, and abode there three days.
And on the fourth day the silver and the gold and the  vessels were weighed in the house of our God into the hand of  Meremoth the son of Urijah the priest; and with him was Eleazar  the son of Phinehas; and with them were Jozabad the son of  Jeshua, and Noadiah the son of Binnui, Levites:
the whole by number and by weight; and all the weight was  written down at that time.
The children of those that had been carried away, who had  come out of the captivity, presented burnt-offerings to the God  of Israel, twelve bullocks for all Israel, ninety-six rams,  seventy-seven lambs, twelve he-goats for a sin-offering: all  for a burnt-offering to Jehovah.
And they delivered the king`s edicts to the king`s satraps,  and to the governors on this side the river. And they furthered  the people and the house of God.
