And it shall be when thou comest into the land that Jehovah  thy God giveth thee for an inheritance, and possessest it, and  dwellest therein,
that thou shalt take of the first of all the fruit of the  ground, which thou shalt bring of thy land which Jehovah thy  God giveth thee, and shalt put it in a basket, and shalt go  unto the place that Jehovah thy God will choose to cause his  name to dwell there;
and thou shalt come unto the priest that shall be in those  days, and say unto him, I profess this day unto Jehovah thy  God, that I am come unto the land that Jehovah swore unto our  fathers to give us.
And the priest shall take the basket out of thy hand, and  set it down before the altar of Jehovah thy God.
And thou shalt speak and say before Jehovah thy God, A  perishing Aramean was my father, and he went down to Egypt with  a few, and sojourned there, and became there a nation, great,  mighty, and populous.
And the Egyptians evil-entreated us, and afflicted us, and  laid upon us hard bondage;
and we cried to Jehovah, the God of our fathers, and  Jehovah heard our voice, and looked on our affliction, and our  labour, and our oppression;
and Jehovah brought us forth out of Egypt with a powerful  hand, and with a stretched-out arm, and with great  terribleness, and with signs, and with wonders;
and he hath brought us into this place, and hath given us  this land, a land flowing with milk and honey!
And now, behold, I have brought the first of the fruits of  the land, which thou, Jehovah, hast given me. And thou shalt  set it down before Jehovah thy God, and worship before Jehovah  thy God.
And thou shalt rejoice in all the good that Jehovah thy  God hath given to thee, and to thy house, thou, and the Levite,  and the stranger that is in thy midst.
When thou hast made an end of tithing all the tithes of  thy produce in the third year, the year of tithing, thou shalt  give it to the Levite, to the stranger, to the fatherless, and  to the widow, that they may eat in thy gates, and be filled;
and thou shalt say before Jehovah thy God, I have brought  away the hallowed things out of the house, and also have given  them to the Levite, and to the stranger, to the fatherless, and  to the widow, according to all thy commandment which thou hast  commanded me; I have not transgressed nor forgotten \any\ of  thy commandments:
I have not eaten thereof in my mourning, neither have I  brought away thereof in uncleanness, nor given thereof for a  dead person; I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah my God; I  have done according to all that thou hast commanded me.
Look down from thy holy habitation, from the heavens, and  bless thy people Israel, and the land that thou hast given us  as thou didst swear unto our fathers, a land flowing with milk  and honey!
This day Jehovah thy God hath commanded thee to do these  statutes and ordinances; and thou shalt keep and do them with  all thy heart and with all thy soul.
Thou hast this day accepted Jehovah to be thy God, and to  walk in his ways, and keep his statutes, and his commandments,  and his ordinances, and to hearken unto his voice;
and Jehovah hath accepted thee this day to be a people of  possession to him, as he hath told thee, and that thou  shouldest keep all his commandments,
so that he should make thee high above all the nations  which he hath made, in praise and in name and in honour; and  that thou shouldest be a holy people to Jehovah thy God, as he  hath said.
