The burden of Egypt. Behold, Jehovah rideth upon a swift  cloud, and cometh to Egypt; and the idols of Egypt are moved at  his presence, and the heart of Egypt melteth in the midst of  it.
And I will incite the Egyptians against the Egyptians; and  they shall fight every one against his brother, and every one  against his neighbour; city against city, kingdom against  kingdom.
And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst of it, and  I will destroy the counsel thereof; and they shall seek unto  the idols and unto the conjurers, and unto the necromancers,  and unto the soothsayers.
And the Egyptians will I give over into the hand of a cruel  lord, and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord,  Jehovah of hosts.
And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall  be wasted and dried up;
and the rivers shall stink, and the streams of Egypt shall  be diminished and drain away: the reeds and sedges shall  wither.
The meadows by the Nile, on the banks of the Nile, and  everything sown by the Nile, shall be dried up, be driven away,  and be no \more\.
And the fishers shall mourn, and all they that cast  fish-hook into the Nile shall lament, and they that spread net  upon the waters shall languish.
And they that work in fine flax, and they that weave white  stuffs shall be ashamed.
And her pillars shall be broken in pieces, and all workers  for hire shall be sad of soul.
They are but fools, the princes of Zoan, the wise  counsellors of Pharaoh: \their\ counsel is become senseless.  How say ye unto Pharaoh, I am the son of the wise, the son of  ancient kings?
Where are they then, thy wise \men\? Let them now tell  thee, and let them make known what Jehovah of hosts hath  purposed upon Egypt.
The princes of Zoan are become foolish, the princes of  Noph are deceived; and the corner-stones of its tribes have  caused Egypt to err.
Jehovah hath mingled a spirit of perverseness in the midst  thereof; and they have caused Egypt to err in every work  thereof, as a drunkard staggereth in his vomit.
Neither shall there be any work for Egypt, which the head  or tail, palm-branch or rush, may do.
In that day shall Egypt be like unto women; and it shall  tremble and fear because of the shaking of the hand of Jehovah  of hosts, which he shaketh over it.
And the land of Judah shall be a dismay unto Egypt: every  one that thinketh of it shall be afraid for himself, because of  the counsel of Jehovah of hosts, which he hath purposed against  it.
In that day shall there be five cities in the land of  Egypt speaking the language of Canaan, and swearing by Jehovah  of hosts: one shall be called, The city of Heres.
In that day shall there be an altar to Jehovah in the  midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof  to Jehovah:
and it shall be for a sign and for a witness to Jehovah of  hosts in the land of Egypt; for they shall cry unto Jehovah  because of the oppressors, and he will send them a saviour and  defender, who shall deliver them.
And Jehovah shall be known to the Egyptians, and the  Egyptians shall know Jehovah in that day, and shall serve with  sacrifice and oblation; and they shall vow a vow unto Jehovah,  and perform it.
And Jehovah will smite Egypt; he will smite and heal: and  they shall return to Jehovah, and he will be entreated of them,  and will heal them.
In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to  Assyria; and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the  Egyptian into Assyria; and Egypt shall serve with Assyria.
In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with  Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth;
whom Jehovah of hosts will bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt  my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine  inheritance!
