The burden of the desert of the sea. As whirlwinds in the  south pass through, so it cometh from the desert, from a  terrible land.
A grievous vision is declared unto me: the treacherous  dealeth treacherously, and the spoiler spoileth. Go up, Elam!  besiege, Media! All the sighing thereof have I made to cease.
Therefore are my loins filled with pain; anguish hath taken  hold upon me, as the anguish of a woman in travail: I am bowed  down so as not to hear, I am dismayed so as not to see.
My heart panteth, horror affrighteth me: the night of my  pleasure hath he turned into trembling unto me.
Prepare the table, appoint the watch; eat, drink: arise, ye  princes, anoint the shield.
For thus hath the Lord said unto me: Go, set a watchman,  let him declare what he seeth.
And he saw chariots, horsemen by pairs, a chariot with  asses, a chariot with camels; and he hearkened diligently with  much heed.
And he cried \as\ a lion, Lord, I stand continually upon  the watchtower in the daytime, and I am set in my ward whole  nights.
-- And behold, there cometh a chariot of men; horsemen by  pairs. And he answered and said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen;  and all the graven images of her gods he hath broken unto the  ground.
O my threshing, and the corn of my floor! What I have  heard of Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared  unto you.
The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir,  Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?
The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night:  if ye will inquire, inquire; return, come.
The burden against Arabia. In the forest of Arabia shall  ye lodge, \ye\ caravans of Dedanites.
Bring ye water to meet the thirsty! The inhabitants of the  land of Tema come forth with their bread for him that fleeth.
For they flee from the swords, from the drawn sword, and  from the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war.
For thus hath the Lord said unto me: Within a year,  according to the years of a hired servant, and all the glory of  Kedar shall fail;
and the residue of the number of the archers, the mighty  men of the sons of Kedar, shall be diminished: for Jehovah, the  God of Israel, hath spoken.
