Woe to thee that spoilest, and thou wast not spoiled; and  that dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously  with thee! When thou shalt cease to spoil, thou shalt be  spoiled; when thou shalt make an end of dealing treacherously,  they shall deal treacherously with thee.
Jehovah, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be  their arm every morning, yea, our salvation in the time of  trouble.
At the noise of the tumult the peoples fled; at the lifting  up of thyself the nations were scattered.
And your spoil shall be gathered \like\ the gathering of  the caterpillar: as the running of locusts shall they run upon  it.
Jehovah is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled  Zion with justice and righteousness;
and he shall be the stability of thy times, the riches of  salvation, wisdom and knowledge: the fear of Jehovah shall be  your treasure.
Behold, their valiant ones cry without; the messengers of  peace weep bitterly.
The highways are desolate, the wayfaring man ceaseth. He  hath broken the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he  regardeth no man.
The land mourneth, it languisheth; Lebanon is ashamed, is  withered; the Sharon is become as a desert, and Bashan and  Carmel are stripped.
Now will I arise, saith Jehovah; now will I be exalted,  now will I lift up myself.
Ye shall conceive dry grass, ye shall bring forth stubble:  your breath shall devour you \as\ fire.
And the peoples shall be \as\ burnings of lime, \as\  thorns cut up shall they be burned in the fire.
Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and ye that  are near, acknowledge my might.
The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling hath surprised  the hypocrites: Who among us shall dwell with the consuming  fire? who among us shall dwell with everlasting flames?
-- He that walketh righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he  that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands  from taking hold of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing  of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil:
he shall dwell on high, the fortresses of the rocks shall  be his high retreat; bread shall be given him, his water shall  be sure.
Thine eyes shall see the King in his beauty; they shall  behold the land that is far off.
Thy heart shall meditate on terror: Where is the scribe?  where is the receiver? where is he that counted the towers?
Thou shalt no more see the fierce people, a people of a  deeper speech than thou canst comprehend, of a stammering  tongue that cannot be understood.
Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes  shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tent that shall not  be removed, the stakes whereof shall never be pulled up,  neither shall any of its cords be broken;
but there Jehovah is unto us glorious, -- a place of  rivers, of broad streams: no galley with oars shall go there,  neither shall gallant ship pass thereby.
For Jehovah is our judge, Jehovah, our lawgiver, Jehovah,  our king: he will save us.
Thy tacklings are loosed; they strengthen not the socket  of their mast, they cannot spread the sail: then is the prey of  a great spoil divided; the lame take the prey.
And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people  that dwell therein shall be forgiven \their\ iniquity.
