And it came to pass when king Hezekiah heard \it\, that he  rent his garments, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went  into the house of Jehovah.
And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna  the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with  sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz.
And they said to him, Thus says Hezekiah: This day is a day  of trouble, and of rebuke, and of reviling; for the children  are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring  forth.
It may be Jehovah thy God will hear the words of  Rab-shakeh, whom the king of Assyria his master has sent to  reproach the living God, and will rebuke the words which  Jehovah thy God hath heard. Therefore lift up a prayer for the  remnant that is left.
And the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
And Isaiah said to them, Thus shall ye say to your master,  Thus saith Jehovah: Be not afraid of the words that thou hast  heard, wherewith the servants of the king of Assyria have  blasphemed me.
Behold, I will put a spirit into him, and he shall hear  tidings, and shall return to his own land; and I will cause him  to fall by the sword in his own land.
And Rab-shakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria  warring against Libnah; for he had heard that he had departed  from Lachish.
And he heard say of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, He has come  forth to make war with thee. And when he heard \it\, he sent  messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah king of Judah, saying: Let  not thy God, upon whom thou reliest, deceive thee, saying,  Jerusalem shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of  Assyria.
Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have  done to all countries, destroying them utterly; and shalt thou  be delivered?
Have the gods of the nations which my fathers have  destroyed delivered them, Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the  children of Eden that were in Thelassar?
Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arpad, and  the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah?
And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the  messengers, and read it; and Hezekiah went up into the house of  Jehovah, and spread it before Jehovah.
And Hezekiah prayed to Jehovah, saying,
Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, who sittest \between\  the cherubim, thou, the Same, thou alone art the God of all the  kingdoms of the earth: thou hast made the heavens and the  earth.
Incline thine ear, O Jehovah, and hear; open, Jehovah,  thine eyes, and see; and hear all the words of Sennacherib, who  hath sent to reproach the living God.
Of a truth, Jehovah, the kings of Assyria have laid waste  all the lands, and their countries,
and have cast their gods into the fire; for they were no  gods, but the work of men`s hands, wood and stone; and they  have destroyed them.
And now, Jehovah our God, save us out of his hand, that  all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art Jehovah,  thou only.
And Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus  saith Jehovah the God of Israel, Whereas thou hast prayed to me  concerning Sennacherib king of Assyria,
this is the word which Jehovah hath spoken against him:  The virgin-daughter of Zion despiseth thee, laugheth thee to  scorn; the daughter of Jerusalem shaketh her head at thee.
Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom  hast thou exalted the voice? Against the Holy One of Israel  hast thou lifted up thine eyes on high.
By thy servants thou hast reproached the Lord, and hast  said, With the multitude of my chariots am I come up to the  height of the mountains, to the recesses of Lebanon; and I will  cut down its tall cedars, the choice of its cypresses; and I  will enter into its furthest height, \into\ the forest of its  fruitful field.
I have digged and drunk water; and with the sole of my  feet have I dried up all the streams of Matsor.
Hast thou not heard that long ago I did it, and that from  ancient days I formed it? Now have I brought it to pass, that  thou shouldest lay waste fortified cities \into\ ruinous heaps.
And their inhabitants were powerless, they were dismayed  and put to shame; they were \as\ the grass of the field and the  green herb, \as\ the grass on the housetops, and grain blighted  before it be grown up.
But I know thine abode, and thy going out, and thy coming  in, and thy raging against me.
Because thy raging against me and thine arrogance is come  up into mine ears, I will put my ring in thy nose, and my  bridle in thy lips, and I will make thee go back by the way by  which thou camest.
And this \shall be\ the sign unto thee: there shall be  eaten this year such as groweth of itself; and in the second  year that which springeth of the same; but in the third year  sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards and eat the fruit  thereof.
And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah  shall again take root downward, and bear fruit upward;
for out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and out of  mount Zion they that escape: the zeal of Jehovah of hosts shall  do this.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah concerning the king of  Assyria: He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow  there, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a bank against  it.
By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and  shall not come into this city, saith Jehovah.
And I will defend this city, to save it, for mine own  sake, and for my servant David`s sake.
And an angel of Jehovah went forth, and smote in the camp  of the Assyrians a hundred and eighty-five thousand. And when  they arose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead  bodies.
And Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and went and  returned, and abode at Nineveh.
And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the house of  Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons smote  him with the sword; and they escaped into the land of Ararat.  And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his stead.
