Exult, thou barren, that didst not bear; break forth into  singing, and shout for joy, thou that didst not travail with  child: for more are the children of the desolate than the  children of the married wife, saith Jehovah.
Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth  the curtains of thy habitations: spare not, lengthen thy cords,  and strengthen thy stakes.
For thou shalt spread abroad on the right hand and on the  left; and thy seed shall possess nations, and they shall make  desolate cities to be inhabited.
Fear not, for thou shalt not be ashamed; neither be thou  confounded, for thou shalt not be put to shame: for thou shalt  forget the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the  reproach of thy widowhood any more.
For thy Maker is thy husband: Jehovah of hosts is his name,  and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: the God of the whole  earth shall he be called.
For Jehovah hath called thee as a woman forsaken and  grieved in spirit, and as a wife of youth, that hath been  refused, saith thy God.
For a small moment have I forsaken thee; but with great  mercies will I gather thee.
In the outpouring of wrath have I hid my face from thee for  a moment; but with everlasting loving-kindness will I have  mercy on thee, saith Jehovah, thy Redeemer.
For this is \as\ the waters of Noah unto me, since I have  sworn that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth:  so have I sworn that I will no more be wroth with thee, nor  rebuke thee.
For the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed;  but my loving-kindness shall not depart from thee, neither  shall my covenant of peace be removed, saith Jehovah, that hath  mercy on thee.
\Thou\ afflicted, tossed with tempest, not comforted!  Behold, I will set thy stones in antimony, and lay thy  foundations with sapphires;
and I will make thy battlements of rubies, and thy gates  of carbuncles, and all thy borders of precious stones.
And all thy children \shall be\ taught of Jehovah, and  great shall be the peace of thy children.
In righteousness shalt thou be established: thou shalt be  far from oppression, for thou shalt not fear; and from terror,  for it shall not come near thee.
Behold, they shall surely gather together, \but\ not by  me: whosoever gathereth together against thee shall fall  because of thee.
Behold, it is I who have created the smith that bloweth in  the fire of coal, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his  work; and I have created the destroyer to ravage.
No weapon that is prepared against thee shall prosper; and  every tongue that riseth against thee in judgment, thou shalt  condemn. This is the inheritance of the servants of Jehovah;  and their righteousness is of me, saith Jehovah.
