O senseless Galatians, who has bewitched you; to whom, as  before your very eyes, Jesus Christ has been portrayed,  crucified \among you\?
This only I wish to learn of you, Have ye received the  Spirit on the principle of works of law, or of \the\ report of  faith?
Are ye so senseless? having begun in Spirit, are ye going to  be made perfect in flesh?
Have ye suffered so many things in vain, if indeed also in  vain?
He therefore who ministers to you the Spirit, and works  miracles among you, \is it\ on the principle of works of law,  or of \the\ report of faith?
Even as Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as  righteousness.
Know then that they that are on the principle of faith,  these are Abraham`s sons;
and the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the  nations on the principle of faith, announced beforehand the  glad tidings to Abraham: In thee all the nations shall be  blessed.
So that they who are on the principle of faith are blessed  with believing Abraham.
For as many as are on the principle of works of law are  under curse. For it is written, Cursed is every one who does  not continue in all things which \are\ written in the book of  the law to do them;
but that by law no one is justified with God \is\ evident,  because The just shall live on the principle of faith;
but the law is not on the principle of faith; but, He that  shall have done these things shall live by them.
Christ has redeemed us out of the curse of the law, having  become a curse for us, (for it is written, Cursed \is\ every  one hanged upon a tree,)
that the blessing of Abraham might come to the nations in  Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit  through faith.
Brethren, (I speak according to man,) even man`s confirmed  covenant no one sets aside, or adds other dispositions to.
But to Abraham were the promises addressed, and to his  seed: he does not say, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one,  And to thy seed; which is Christ.
Now I say this, A covenant confirmed beforehand by God, the  law, which took place four hundred and thirty years after, does  not annul, so as to make the promise of no effect.
For if the inheritance \be\ on the principle of law, \it  is\ no longer on the principle of promise; but God gave it in  grace to Abraham by promise.
Why then the law? It was added for the sake of  transgressions, until the seed came to whom the promise was  made, ordained through angels in \the\ hand of a mediator.
But a mediator is not of one, but God is one.
\Is\ then the law against the promises of God? Far be the  thought. For if a law had been given able to quicken, then  indeed righteousness were on the principle of law;
but the scripture has shut up all things under sin, that  the promise, on the principle of faith of Jesus Christ, should  be given to those that believe.
But before faith came, we were guarded under law, shut up  to faith \which was\ about to be revealed.
So that the law has been our tutor up to Christ, that we  might be justified on the principle of faith.
But, faith having come, we are no longer under a tutor;
for ye are all God`s sons by faith in Christ Jesus.
For ye, as many as have been baptised unto Christ, have put  on Christ.
There is no Jew nor Greek; there is no bondman nor freeman;  there is no male and female; for ye are all one in Christ  Jesus:
but if *ye* \are\ of Christ, then ye are Abraham`s seed,  heirs according to promise.
