A deceitful balance is an abomination before the Lord: and a just weight is his will.
Where pride is, there also shall be reproach: but where humility is, there also is wisdom.
The simplicity of the just shall guide them: and the deceitfulness of the wicked shall destroy them.
Riches shall not profit in the day of revenge: but justice shall deliver from death.
The justice of the upright shall make his way prosperous: and the wicked man shall fall by his own wickedness.
The justice of the righteous shall deliver them: and the unjust shall be caught in their own snares.
When the wicked man is dead, there shall be no hope any more: and the expectation of the solicitous shall perish.
The just is delivered out of distress: and the wicked shall be given up for him.
The dissembler with his mouth deceiveth his friend: but the just shall be delivered by knowledge.
When it goeth well with the just the city shall rejoice: and when the wicked perish there shall be praise.
By the blessing of the just the city shall be exalted: and by the mouth of the wicked it shall be overthrown.
He that despiseth his friend, is mean of heart: but the wise man will hold his peace.
He that walketh deceitfully, revealeth secrets: but he that is faithful, concealeth the thing committed to him by his friend.
Where there is no governor, the people shall fall: but there is safety where there is much counsel.
He shall be afflicted with evil, that is surety for a stranger: but he that is aware of the snares, shall be secure.
A gracious woman shall find glory: and the strong shall have riches.
A merciful man doth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel casteth off even his own kindred.
The wicked maketh an unsteady work: but to him that soweth justice, there is a faithful reward.
Clemency prepareth life: and the pursuing of evil things, death.
A perverse heart is abominable to the Lord: and his will is in them that walk sincerely.
Hand in hand the evil man shall not be innocent: but the seed of the just shall be saved.
A golden ring in a swine's snout, a woman fair and foolish.
The desire of the just is all good: the expectation of the wicked is indignation.
Some distribute their own goods, and grow richer: others take away what is not their own, and are always in want.
The soul which blesseth, shall be made fat: and he that inebriateth, shall be inebriated also himself.
He that hideth up corn, shall be cursed among the people: but a blessing upon the head of them that sell.
Well doth he rise early who seeketh good things; but he that seeketh after evil things shall be oppressed by them.
He that trusteth in his riches shall fall: but the just shall spring up as a green leaf.
He that troubleth his own house, shall inherit the winds: and the fool shall serve the wise.
The fruit of the just man is a tree of life: and he that gaineth souls, is wise.
If the just man receive in the earth, how much more the wicked and the sinner.
