He that loveth correction, loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is foolish.
He that is good, shall draw grace from the Lord : but he that trusteth in his own devices doth wickedly.
Men shall not be strengthened by wickedness: and the root of the just shall not be moved.
A diligent woman is a crown to her husband: and she that doth things worthy of confusion, is a rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the just are judgments: and the counsels of the wicked are deceitful.
The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood: the mouth of the just shall deliver them.
Turn the wicked, and they shall not be: but the house of the just shall stand firm.
A man shall be known by his learning: but he that is vain and foolish, shall be exposed to contempt.
Better is the poor man that provideth for himself, than he that is glorious and wanteth bread.
The just regardeth the lives of his beasts: but the bowels of the wicked are cruel.
He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that pursueth idleness is very foolish. He that is delighted in passing his time over wine, leaveth a reproach in his strong holds.
The desire of the wicked is the fortification of evil men: but the root of the just shall prosper.
For the sins of the lips ruin draweth nigh to the evil mall: but the just shall escape out of distress.
By the fruit of his own mouth shall a man be filled with good things, and according to the works of his hands it shall be repaid him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsels.
A fool immediately sheweth his anger: but he that dissembleth injuries is wise.
He that speaketh that which he knoweth, sheweth forth justice: but he that lieth, is a deceitful witness.
There is that promiseth, and is pricked as it were with a sword of conscience: but the tongue of the wise is health.
The lip of truth shall be steadfast for ever: but he that is a hasty witness, frameth a lying tongue.
Deceit is in the heart of them that think evil things: but joy followeth them that take counsels of peace.
Whatsoever shall befall the just man. it shall not make him sad: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.
Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord: but they that deal faithfully please him.
A cautious man concealeth knowledge: and the heart of fools publisheth folly.
The hand of the valiant shall bear rule: but that which is slothful, shall be under tribute.
Grief in the heart of a man shall bring him low, but with a good word he shall be made glad.
He that neglecteth a loss for the sake of a friend, is just: but the way of the wicked shall deceive them.
The deceitful man shall not find gain: but the substance of a just man shall be precious gold.
In the path of justice is life: but the by-way leadeth to death.
