A wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish will pull down with her hands that also which is built.
He that walketh in the right way, and feareth God, Cis despised by him that goeth by an infamous way.
In the mouth of a fool is the rod of pride: but the lips of the wise preserve them.
Where there are no oxen, the crib is empty: but where there is much corn, there the strength of the ox is manifest.
A faithful witness will not lie: but a deceitful witness uttereth a lie.
A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not: the learning of the wise is easy.
Go against a foolish man, and he knoweth not the lips of prudence.
The wisdom of a. discreet man is to understand his way: and the imprudence of fools erreth.
A fool will laugh at sin, but among the just grace shall abide.
The heart that knoweth the bitterness of his own soul, in his joy the stranger shall not intermeddle.
The house of the wicked shall be destroyed: but the tabernacles of the just shall flourish.
There is a way which seemeth just to a man: but the ends thereof lead to death.
Laughter shall be mingled with sorrow, and mourning taketh hold of the end of joy.
A fool shall be filled with his own ways, and the good man shall be above him.
The innocent believeth every word: the discreet man considereth his steps. No good shall come to the deceitful son: but the wise servant shall prosper in his dealings, and his way shall be made straight.
A wise man feareth and declineth from evil: the fool leapeth over and is confident.
The impatient man shall work folly: and the crafty man is hateful.
The childish shall possess folly, and the prudent, shall look for knowledge.
The evil shall fall down before the good: and the wicked before the gates of the just.
The poor man shall be hateful even to his own neighbour: but the friends of the rich are many.
He that despiseth his neighbour, sinneth: but he that sheweth mercy to the poor, shall be blessed. He that believeth in the Lord, loveth mercy.
They err that work evil: but mercy and truth prepare good things.
In much work there shall be abundance: but where there are many words, there is oftentimes want.
The crown of the wise is their riches: the folly of fools, imprudence.
A faithful witness delivereth souls: and the double dealer uttereth lies.
In the fear of the Lord is confidence of strength, and there shall be hope for his children.
The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, to decline from the ruin of death.
In the multitude of people is the dignity of the king: and in the small number of people the dishonour of the prince.
He that is patient, is governed with much wisdom: but he that is impatient, exalteth his folly.
Soundness of heart is the life of the flesh: but envy is the rottenness of the bones.
He that oppresseth the poor, upbraideth his Maker: but he that hath pity on the poor, honoureth him.
The wicked man shall be driven out in his wickedness: but the just hath hope in his death.
In the heart of the prudent resteth wisdom, and it shall instruct all the ignorant.
Justice exalteth a nation: but sin maketh nations miserable.
A wise servant is acceptable to the king: he that is good for nothing shall feel his anger.
