Better is a dry morsel with joy, than a house full of victims with strife.
A wise servant shall rule over foolish sons, and shall divide the inheritance among the brethren.
As silver is tried by fire, and gold in the furnace: so the Lord trieth the hearts.
The evil man obeyeth an unjust tongue: and the deceitful hearkeneth to lying lips.
He that despiseth the poor, reproacheth his Maker; and he that rejoiceth at another man's ruin, shall not be unpunished.
Children's children are the crown of old men: and the glory of children are their fathers.
Eloquent words do not become a fool, nor lying lips a prince.
The expectation of him that expecteth, is a most acceptable jewel: whithersoever he turneth himself, he understandeth wisely.
He that concealeth a transgression. seeketh friendships: he that repeateth it again, separateth friends.
A reproof availeth more with a wise man, than a hundred stripes with a fool.
An evil man always seeketh quarrels: but a cruel angel shall be sent against him.
It is better to meet a bear robbed of her whelps, than a fool trusting in his own folly.
He that rendereth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.
The beginning of quarrels is as when one letteth out water: before he suffereth reproach he forsaketh judgment.
He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just, both are abominable before God.
What doth it avail a fool to have riches, seeing he cannot buy wisdom? He that maketh his house high, seeketh a downfall: and he that refuseth to learn, shall fall into evils.
He that is a friend loveth at all times: and a brother is proved in distress.
A foolish man will clap hands, when he is surety for his friend.
He that studieth discords, loveth quarrels: and he that exalteth his door, seeketh ruin.
He that is of a perverse heart, shall not find good: and he that perverteth his tongue, shall fall into evil.
A fool is born to his own disgrace: and even his father shall not rejoice in a fool.
A joyful mind maketh age flourishing: a sorrowful spirit drieth up the bones.
The wicked man taketh gifts out of the bosom, that he may pervert the paths of judgment.
Wisdom shineth in the face of the wise: the eyes of fools are in the ends of the earth.
A foolish son is the anger of the father: and the sorrow of the mother that bore him.
It is no good thing to do hurt to the just: nor to strike the prince, who judgeth right.
He that setteth bounds to his words. is knowing and wise: and the man of understanding is of a precious spirit.
Even a fool, if he will hold his peace shall be counted wise: and if he close his lips, a man of understanding.
