Better is the poor man, that walketh in his simplicity, than a rich man that is perverse in his lips, and unwise.
Where there is no knowledge of the soul, there is no good: and he that is hasty with his feet shall stumble.
The folly of a man supplanteth his seeps: and he fretteth in his mind against God.
Riches make many friends: but from the poor man, even they whom he had, depart.
A false witness shall not be unpunished: and he that speaketh lies shall not escape.
Many honour the person of him that is mighty, and are friends of him that giveth gifts.
The brethren of the poor man hate him: moreover also his friends have departed far from him. He that followeth after words only, shall have nothing.
But he that possesseth a mind, loveth his own soul, and he that keepeth prudence shall find good things.
A false witness shall not be unpunished: and he that speaketh lies, shall perish.
Delicacies are not seemly for a fool: nor for a servant to have rule over princes.
The learning of a man is known by patience and his glory is to pass over wrongs.
As the roaring of a lion, so also is the anger of a king: and his cheerfulness as the dew upon the grass.
A foolish son is the grief of his father: and a wrangling wife is like a roof continually dropping through.
House and riches are given by parents: but a prudent wife is properly from the Lord.
Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep, and an idle soul shall suffer hunger.
He that keepeth the commandment, keepeth his own soul: but he that neglecteth his own way, shall die.
He that hath mercy on the poor, lendeth to the Lord: and he will repay him.
Chastise thy son, despair not: but to the killing of him set not thy soul.
He that is impatient, shall suffer damage: and when he shall take away he shall add another thing.
Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayst be wise in thy latter end.
There are many thoughts in the heart of a man: but the will of the Lord shall stand firm.
A needy man is merciful: and better is the poor than the lying man.
The fear of the Lord is unto life: and he shall abide in fulness without being visited with evil.
The slothful hideth his hand under his armpit, and will not so much as bring it to his mouth.
The wicked man being; scourged, the fool shall be wiser: but if thou rebuke a wise man he will understand discipline.
He that afflicteth his father, and chaseth away his mother, is infamous and unhappy.
Cease not, O my son, to hear instruction, and be not ignorant of the words of knowledge.
An unjust witness scorneth judgment: and the mouth of the wicked devoureth iniquity.
Judgments are prepared for scorners: and striking hammers for the bodies of fools.
