As the divisions of waters, so the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord: whithersoever he will he shall turn it.
Every way of a man seemeth right to himself: but the Lord weigheth the hearts.
To do mercy and judgment, pleaseth the Lord more than victims.
Haughtiness of the eyes is the enlarging of the heart: the lamp of the wicked is sin.
The thoughts of the industrious al- ways bring forth abundance: but every sluggard is always in want.
He that gathereth treasures by a lying tongue, is vain and foolish, and shall stumble upon the snares of death.
The robberies of the wicked shall be their downfall, because they would not do judgment.
The perverse way of a man is strange: but as for him that is pure, his work is right.
It is better to sit in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling women, and in a common house.
The soul of the wicked desireth evil, he will not have pity on his neighbour.
When a pestilent man is punished, the little one will be wiser: and if he follow the wise, he will receive knowledge.
The just considereth seriously the house of the wicked, that he may withdraw the wicked from evil.
He that stoppeth his ear against the cry of the poor, shall also cry himself and shall not be heard.
A secret present quencheth anger: and a gift in the bosom the greatest wrath.
It is joy to the just to do judgment: and dread to them that work iniquity.
A man that shall wander out of the way of doctrine, shall abide in the company of the giants.
He that loveth good cheer, shall be in want: he that loveth wine, and fat things, shall not be rich.
The wicked is delivered up for the just: and the unjust for the righteous.
It is better to dwell in a wilderness, than with a quarrelsome and passionate woman.
There is a treasure to be desired, and oil in the dwelling of the just: and the foolish man shall spend it.
He that followeth justice and mercy, shall find life, justice, and glory.
The wise man hath scaled the city of the strong, and hath cast down the strength of the confidence thereof.
He that keepeth his mouth and his tongue, keepeth his soul from distress.
The proud and the arrogant is called ignorant, who in anger worketh pride.
Desires kill the slothful: for his hands have refused to work at all.
He longeth and desireth all the day : but he that is just, will give, and will not cease.
The sacrifices of the wicked are abominable, because they are offered of wickedness.
A lying witness shall perish: an obedient man shall speak of victory.
The wicked man impudently hardeneth his face: but he that is righteous, correcteth his way.
There is no wisdom, there is no prudence, there is no counsel against the Lord.
The horse is prepared for the day of battle: but the Lord giveth safety.
