Seek not to be like evil men, neither desire to be with them:
Because their mind studieth robberies, and their lips speak deceits.
By wisdom the house shall be built, and by prudence it shall be strengthened.
By instruction the storerooms shall be filled with all precious and most beautiful wealth.
A wise man is strong: and a knowing man, stout and valiant.
Because war is managed by due ordering: and there shall be safety where there are many counsels.
Wisdom is too high for a fool, in the gate he shall not open his mouth.
He that deviseth to do evils, shall be called a fool.
The thought of a fool is sin: and the detracter is the abomination of men.
If thou lose hope being weary in the day of distress, thy strength shall be diminished.
Deliver them that are led to death: and those that are drawn to death forbear not to deliver.
If thou say: I have not strength enough: he that seeth into the heart, he understandeth, and nothing deceiveth the keeper of thy soul, end he shall render to a man according to his works.
Fat honey, my son, because it is good, and the honeycomb most sweet to thy throat:
So also is the doctrine of wisdom to thy soul: which when thou hast found, thou shalt have hope in the end, and thy hope shall not perish.
Lie not in wait, nor seek after wickedness in the house of the just, nor spoil his rest.
For a just mall shall fall seven times and shall rise again: but the wicked shall fall down into evil.
When thy enemy shall fall, be not glad, and in his ruin let not thy heart rejoice:
Lest the Lord see, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.
Contend not with the wicked, nor seek to be like the ungodly:
For evil men have no hope of things to come, and the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
My son, fear the Lord and the king: and have nothing to do with detracters.
For their destruction shall rise suddenly: and who knoweth the ruin of both?
These things also to the wise: It is not good to have respect to persons in judgment.
They that say to the wicked man: Thou art just: shall be cursed by the people, and the tribes shall abhor them.
They that rebuke him, shall be praised: and a blessing shall come upon them.
He shall kiss the lips, who answereth right words.
Prepare thy work without, and diligently till thy ground: that afterward thou mayst build thy house.
Be not witness without cause against thy neighbour: and deceive not any man with thy lips.
Say not: I will do to him as he hath done to me: I will render to every one according to his work.
I passed by the field of the slothful man, and by the vineyard of the foolish man:
And behold it was all filled with nettles, and thorns had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall was broken down.
Which when I had seen, I laid it up in my heart, and by the example I received instruction.
Thou wilt sleep a little, said I, thou wilt slumber a little, thou wilt fold thy hands a little to rest:
And poverty shall come to thee as a runner, and beggary as an armed man.
