As snow in summer, and rain in harvest, so glory is not seemly for a fool.
As a bird flying to other places, and a sparrow going here or there: so a curse uttered without cause shall come upon a man.
A whip for a horse, and a snaffle for an ass, and a rod for the back of fools.
Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou be made like him.
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he imagine himself to be wise.
He that sendeth words by a foolish messenger, is lame of feet and drinketh iniquity.
As a lame man hath fair legs in vain: so a parable is unseemly in the mouth of fools.
As he that casteth a stone into the heap of Mercury: so is he that giveth honour to a fool.
As if a thorn should grow in the hand of a drunkard: so is a parable in the mouth of fools.
Judgment determineth causes: and he that putteth a fool to silence, appeaseth anger.
As a dog that returneth to his vomit, so is the fool that repeateth his folly.
Hast thou seen a man wise in his own conceit? there shall be more hope of a fool than of him.
The slothful man saith: There is a lion in the way, and a lioness in the roads.
As the door turneth upon its hinges, so doth the slothful upon his bed.
The slothful hideth his hand under his armpit, and it grieveth him to turn it to his mouth.
The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit, than seven men that speak sentences.
As he that taketh a dog by the ears, so is he that passeth by in anger, and meddleth with another man's quarrel.
As he is guilty that shooteth arrows, and lances unto death :
So is the man that hurteth his friend deceitfully: and when he is taken, saith: I did it in jest.
When the wood faileth, the fire shall go out: and when the talebearer is taken away, contentions shall cease.
As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire, so an angry man stirreth up strife.
The words of a talebearer are as it were simple, but they reach to the innermost parts of the belly.
Swelling lips joined with a corrupt heart, are like an earthen vessel adorned with silver dross.
An enemy is known by his lips, when in his heart he entertaineth deceit.
When he shall speak low, trust him not: because there are seven mischiefs in his heart.
He that covereth hatred deceitfully, his malice shall be laid open in the public assembly.
He that diggeth a pit, shall fall into it: and he that rolleth a stone, it shall return to him.
A deceitful tongue loveth not truth: and a slippery mouth worketh ruin.
