The wicked man fleeth, when no man pursueth: but the just, bold as a lion, shall be without dread.
For the sine of the land many are the princes thereof: and for the wisdom of a man, and the knowledge of those things that are said, the life of the prince shall be prolonged.
A poor man that oppresseth the poor, is like a violent shower, which bringeth a famine.
They that forsake the law, praise the wicked man: they that keep it, are incensed against him.
Evil men think not on judgment: but they that seek after the Lord, take notice of all things.
Better is the poor man walking in his simplicity, than the rich in crooked ways.
He that keepeth the law is a wise son: but he that feedeth gluttons, shameth his father.
He that heapeth together riches by usury and loan, gathereth them for him that will be bountiful to the poor.
He that turneth away his ears from hearing the law, his prayer shall be as abomination.
He that deceiveth the just in a wicked way, shall fall in his own destruction: and the upright shall possess his goods.
The rich man seemeth to himself wise: but the poor man that is prudent shall search him out.
In the joy of the just there is great glory: when the wicked reign, men are ruined.
He that hideth his sins, shall not prosper: but he that shall confess, and forsake them, shall obtain mercy.
Blessed is the man that is always fearful: but he that is hardened in mind, shall fall into evil.
As a roaring lion, and a hungry bear, so is a wicked prince over the poor people.
A prince void of prudence shall oppress many by calumny: but he that hateth covetousness, shall prolong his days.
A man that doth violence to the blood of a person, if he flee even to the pit, no man will stay him.
He that walketh uprightly, shall be saved: he that is perverse in his ways shall fall at once.
He that tilleth his ground, shall be filled with bread: but he that followeth idleness shall be filled with poverty.
A faithful man shall be much praised: but he that maketh haste to be rich, shall not be innocent.
He that hath respect to a person in judgment, doth not well: such a man even for a morsel of bread forsaketh the truth.
A man, that maketh haste to be rich, and envieth others, is ignorant that poverty shall come upon him.
He that rebuketh a man, shall afterward find favour with him, more than he that by a flattering tongue deceiveth him.
He that stealeth any thing from his father, or from his mother: and saith, This is no sin, is the partner of a murderer.
He that boasteth, and puffeth up himself, stirreth up quarrels: but he that trusteth in the Lord, shall be healed.
He that trusteth in his own heart, is a fool: but he that walketh wisely, he shall be saved.
He that giveth to the poor, shall not want: he that despiseth his entreaty, shall suffer indigence.
When the wicked rise up, men shall hide themselves: when they perish, the lust shall be multiplied.
