The man that with a stiff neck despiseth him that reproveth him, shall suddenly be destroyed: and health shall not follow him.
When just men increase, the people shall rejoice: when the wicked shall bear rule, the people shall mourn.
A man that loveth wisdom, rejoiceth his father: but he that maintaineth bar lots, shall squander away his substance.
A just king setteth up the land: a covetous man shall destroy it.
A man that speaketh to his friend with flattering and dissembling words, spreadeth a net for his feet.
A snare shall entangle the wicked man when he sinneth: and the just shall praise and rejoice.
The just taketh notice of the cause of the poor: the wicked is void of knowledge.
Corrupt men bring a city to ruin: but wise men turn away wrath.
If a wise man contend with a fool, whether he be angry or laugh, he shall find no rest.
Bloodthirsty men hate the upright: but just men seek his soul.
A fool uttereth all his mind: a wise man deferreth, and keepeth it till afterwards.
A prince that gladly heareth lying words, hath all his servants wicked.
The poor man and the creditor have met one another: the Lord is the enlightener of them both.
The king that judgeth the poor in truth, his throne shall be established for ever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom: but the child that is left to his own will bringeth his mother to shame.
When the wicked are multiplied, crimes shall be multiplied: but the just shall see their downfall.
Instruct thy son, and he shall refresh thee, and shall give delight to thy soul.
When prophecy shall fail, the people shall be scattered abroad: but he that keepeth the law is blessed.
A slave will not be corrected by words: because he understandeth what thou sayest, and will not answer.
Hast thou seen a man hasty to speak? folly is rather to be looked for, than his amendment.
He that nourisheth his servant delicately from his childhood, afterwards shall find him stubborn.
A passionate man provoketh quarrels: and he that is easily stirred up to wrath, shall be more prone to sin.
Humiliation followeth the proud: and glory shall uphold the humble of spirit.
He that is partaker with a thief, hateth his own soul: he heareth one putting him to his oath, and discovereth not.
He that feareth man, shall quickly fall: he that trusteth in the Lord, shall be set on high.
Many seek the face of the prince: but the judgment of every one cometh forth from the Lord.
The just abhor the wicked man: and the wicked loathe them that are in the right way. The son that keepeth the word, shall be free from destruction.
