My son, forget not my law, and let thy heart keep my commandments.
For they shall add to thee length of days, and years of life and peace.
Let not mercy and truth leave thee, put them about thy neck, and write them in the tables of thy heart:
And thou shalt And grace and good understanding before God and men.
Have confidence in the Lord with all thy heart, and lean not upon thy own prudence.
In all thy ways think on him, and he will direct thy steps.
I Be not wise in thy own conceit: fear God, and depart from evil:
For it shall be health to thy navel, and moistening to thy bones.
Honour the Lord with thy substance, and give him of the first of all thy fruits :
And thy barns shall be filled with abundance, and thy presses shall run over with wine.
My son, reject not the correction of the Lord: and do not faint when thou art chastised by him:
For whom the Lord loveth, he chastiseth: and as a father in the son he pleaseth himself.
Blessed is the man that findeth wisdom and is rich in prudence:
The purchasing thereof is better than the merchandise of silver, and her fruit than the chiefest and purest gold:
She is more precious than all riches : and all the things that are desired, are not to be compared with her.
Length of days is in her right hand, and in her left hand riches and glory.
Her ways are beautiful ways, and all her paths are peaceable.
She is a tree of life to them that lay hold on her: and he that shall retain her is blessed.
The Lord by wisdom hath founded the earth, hath established the heavens by prudence.
By his wisdom the depths have broken out, and the clouds grow thick with dew
My son, let not these things depart from thy eyes: keep the law and counsel:
And there shall be life to thy soul, and grace to thy mouth.
Then shalt thou walk confidently in thy way, and thy foot shall not stumble:
If thou sleep, thou shalt not fear: thou shalt rest, and thy sleep shall be sweet.
Be not afraid of sudden fear, nor of the power of the wicked falling upon thee.
For the Lord will be at thy side, and will keep thy foot that thou be not taken.
Do not withhold him from doing good, who is able: if thou art able, do good thyself also.
Say not to thy friend: Go, and come again: and to morrow I will give to thee: when thou canst give at present.
Practise not evil against thy friend, when he hath confidence in thee.
Strive not against a man without cause, when he hath done thee no evil.
Envy not the unjust man, and do not follow his ways:
For every mocker is an abomination to the Lord, and his communication is with the simple.
Want is from the Lord in the house of the wicked: but the habitations of the just shall be blessed.
He shall scorn the scorners, and to the meek he will give grace.
The wise shall possess glory: the promotion of fools is disgrace.
