My son, keep my words, and lay up my precepts with thee. Son,
Keep my commandments, and thou shalt live: and my law as the apple of thy eye:
Bind it upon thy fingers, write it upon the tables of thy heart.
Say to wisdom: Thou art my sister: and call prudence thy friend,
That she may keep thee from the woman that is not thine, and from the stranger who sweeteneth her words.
For I look out of the window of my house through the lattice,
And I see little ones, I behold a foolish young man,
Who passeth through the street by the corner, and goeth nigh the way of her house.
In the dark, when it grows late, in the darkness and obscurity of the night,
And behold a woman meeteth him in harlot's attire prepared to deceive souls; talkative and wandering,
Not bearing to be quiet, not able to abide still at home,
Now abroad, now in the streets, now lying in wait near the corners.
And catching the young man, she kisseth him, and with an impudent face, flattereth, saying:
I vowed victims for prosperity, this day I have paid my vows.
Therefore I am come out to meet thee, desirous to see thee, and I have found thee.
I have woven my bed with cords, I have covered it with painted tapestry, brought from Egypt.
I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.
Come, let us be inebriated with the breasts, and let us enjoy the desired embraces, till the day appear.
For my husband is not at home, he is gone a very long journey.
He took with him a bag of money: he mill return home the day of the full moon.
She entangled him with many words, and drew him away with the flattery of her lips.
Immediately he followeth her as an ox led to be a victim, and as a lamb playing the wanton, and not knowing that he is drawn like a fool to bonds,
Till the arrow pierce his liver: as if a bird should make haste to the snare, and knoweth not that his life is in danger.
Now therefore, my son, hear me, and attend to the words of my mouth.
Let not thy mind be drawn away in her ways: neither be thou deceived with her paths.
For she hath cast down many wounded, and the strongest have been slain by her.
Her house is the way to hell, reaching even to the inner chambers of death.
