When Job answered, and said:
Are you then men alone, and shall wisdom die with you?
I also have a heart as well as you: for who is ignorant of these things, which you know?
He that is mocked by his friends as I, shall call upon God and he will hear him: for the simplicity of the just man is laughed to scorn.
The lamp despised in the thoughts of the rich, is ready for the time appointed.
The tabernacles of robbers abound, and they provoke God boldly; whereas it is he that hath given all into their hands:
But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee: and the birds of the air, and they shall tell thee.
Speak to the earth, and it shall answer thee: and the fishes of the sea shall tell.
Who is ignorant that the hand of the Lord hath made all these things?
In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the spirit of all flesh of man.
Doth not the ear discern words, and the palate of him that eateth, the taste?
In the ancient is wisdom, and in length of days prudence.
With him is wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and understanding.
If he pull down, there is no man that can build up: if he shut up a. man, there is none that can open.
If he withhold the waters, all things shall be dried up: and if he send them out, they shall overturn the earth.
With him is strength and wisdom: he knoweth both the deceiver, and him that is deceived.
He bringeth counsellors to a foolish end, and judges to insensibility.
He looseth the belt of kings, and girdeth their loins with a cord.
He leadeth away priests without glory, and overthroweth nobles.
He changeth the speech of the true speakers, and taketh away the doctrine of the aged.
He poureth contempt upon princes, and relieveth them that were oppressed.
He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth up to light the shadow of death.
He multiplieth nations, and destroyeth them, and restoreth them again after they were overthrown.
He changeth the heart of the princes of the people of the earth, and deceiveth them that they walk in vain where there is no way.
They shall grope as in the dark, and not in the light, and he shall make them stagger like men that are drunk.
