Behold my eye hath seen all these things, and my ear hath heard them, and I have understood them all.
According to your knowledge I also know: neither am I inferior to you.
But yet I will speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God.
Having first shewn that you are forgers of lies, and maintainers of perverse opinions.
And I wish you would hold your peace, that you might be thought to be wise men..
Hear ye therefore my reproof, and attend to the judgment of my lips.
Hath God any need of your lie, that you should speak deceitfully for him?
Do you accept his person, and do you endeavour to judge for God?
Or shall it please him, from whom nothing can be concealed ? or shall he be deceived as a man, with your deceitful dealings ?
He shall reprove you, because in secret you accept his person.
As soon as he shall move himself, he shall trouble you: and his dread shall fall upon you.
Your remembrance shall be compared to ashes, and your necks shall be brought to clay.
Hold your peace a little while, that I may speak whatsoever my mind shall suggest to me.
Why do I tear my flesh with my teeth, and carry my soul in my hands?
Although he should bill me, I will trust in him: but yet I will reprove my ways in his sight.
And he shall be my saviour: for no hypocrite shall come before his presence.
Hear ye my speech, and receive with Sour ears hidden truths.
If I shall be judged, I know that I shall be found just.
Who is he that will plead against me? let him come: why am I consumed holding my peace?
Two things only do not to me, and then from thy face I shall not be hid:
Withdraw thy hand far from me, and let not thy dread terrify me.
Call me, and I will answer thee: or else I will speak, and do thou answer me.
How many are my iniquities and sins? make me know my crimes and offences.
Why hidest thou thy face, and thinkest me thy enemy?
Against a leaf, that is carried away with the wind, thou shewest thy power, and thou pursuest a dry straw.
For thou writest bitter things against me, and wilt consume me for the sins of my youth.
Thou hast put my feet in the stocks, and hast observed all my paths, and hast considered the steps of my feet:
Who am to be consumed as rottenness, and as a garment that is moth-eaten.
