Man born of a woman, living for a short time, is filled with many miseries.
Who cometh forth like a flower, and is destroyed, and fleeth as a shadow, and never continueth in the same state.
And dost thou think it meet to open thy eyes upon such an one, and to bring him into judgment with thee?
Who can make him clean that is conceived of unclean seed ? is it not thou who only art?
The days of man are short, and the number of his months is with thee: thou hast appointed his bounds which cannot be passed.
Depart a little from him, that he may rest, until his wished for day come, as that of the hireling.
A tree hath hope: if it be cut, it groweth green again, and the boughs thereof sprout.
If its root be old in the earth, and its stock be dead in the dust:
At the scent of water, it shall spring, and bring forth leaves, as when it was first planted.
But man when he shall be dead, and stripped and consumed, I pray you where is he?
As if the waters should depart out of the sea, and an emptied river should be dried up:
So man when he is fallen asleep shall not rise again; till the heavens be broken, he shall not awake, nor rise up out of his sleep.
Who will grant me this, that thou mayest protect me in hell, and hide me till thy wrath pass, and appoint me a. time when thou wilt remember me?
Shall man that is dead, thinkest thou, live again? all the days in which I am now in warfare, I expect until my change come.
Thou shalt call me, and I will answer thee: to the work of thy hands thou shalt reach out thy right hand.
Thou indeed hast numbered my steps, but spare my sins.
Thou hast sealed up my offences as it were in a bag, but hast cured my iniquity.
A mountain falling cometh to nought, and a rock is removed out of its place.
Waters wear away the stones, and with inundation the ground by little and little is washed away: so in like manner thou shalt destroy man.
Thou hast strengthened him for a little while, that he may pass away for ever: thou shalt change his face, and shalt send him away.
Whether his children come to honour or dishonour, he shall not understand.
But yet his flesh, while he shall live, shall have pain, and his soul shall mourn over him.
