And Eliphaz the Themanite, answered, and said:
Will a wise man answer as if he were speaking in the wind, and fill his stomach with burning heat?
Thou reprovest him by words, who is not equal to thee, and thou speakest that which is not good for thee.
As much as is in thee, thou hast made void fear, and hast taken away prayers from before God.
For thy iniquity hath taught thy mouth, and thou imitatest the tongue of blasphemers.
Thy own mouth shall condemn thee, and not I: and thy own lips shall answer thee.
Art thou the first man that was born, or wast thou made before the hills ?
Hast thou heard God's counsel, and shall his wisdom be inferior to thee?
What knowest thou that we are ignorant of? what dost thou understand that we know not?
There are with us also aged and ancient men, much elder than thy fathers.
Is it a great matter that God should comfort thee? but thy wicked words hinder this.
Why doth thy heart elevate thee, and why dost thou stare with thy eyes, as if they were thinking great things ?
Why doth thy spirit swell against God, to utter such words out of thy mouth ?
What is man that he should be without spot, and he that is born of a woman that he should appear just?
Behold among his saints none is unchangeable, and the heavens are not pure in his sight.
How much more is man abominable, and unprofitable, who drinketh iniquity like water?
I will shew thee, hear me : and I mill tell thee what I have seen.
Wise men confess and hide not their fathers.
To whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger hath passed among them.
The wicked man is proud all his days, and the number of the years of his tyranny is uncertain.
The sound of dread is always in his ears: and when there is peace, he always suspecteth treason.
He believeth not that he may return from darkness to light, looking round about for the sword on every side.
When he moveth himself to seek bread, he knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.
Tribulation shall terrify him, and distress shall surround him, as a king that is prepared for the battle.
For he hath stretched out his hand against God, and hath strengthened himself against the Almighty.
He hath run against him with his neck raised up, and is armed with a fat neck.
Fatness hath covered his face, and the fat hangeth down on his sides.
He hath dwelt in desolate cities, and in desert houses that are reduced into heaps.
He shall not be enriched, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall he push his root in the earth.
He shall not depart out of darkness: the flame shall dry up his branches, and he shall be taken away by the breath of his own month.
He shall not believe, being vainly deceived by error, that he may be redeemed with any price.
Before his days be full he shall perish: and his hands shall wither away.
He shall be blasted as a vine when its grapes are in the first flower, and as an olive tree that casteth its flower.
For the congregation of the hypocrite is barren, and fire shall devour their tabernacles, who love to take bribes.
He hath conceived sorrow, and hath brought forth iniquity, and his womb prepareth deceits.
