So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he seemed just to himself.
And Eliu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram, was angry and was moved to indignation : now he was angry against Job, because he said he was just before God.
And he was angry with his friends because they had not found a reasonable answer, but only had condemned Job.
So Eliu waited while Job was speaking, because they were his elders that were speaking.
But when he saw that the three were not able to answer, he was exceedingly angry.
Then Eliu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said : I am younger in days, and you are more ancient; therefore hanging down my head, I was afraid to shew you my opinion.
For I hoped that greater age would speak, and that a multitude of years would teach wisdom.
But, as I see, there is a spirit in men, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth understanding.
They that are aged are not the wise men, neither do the ancients understand judgment.
Therefore I will speak : Hearken to me, I also will shew you my wisdom.
For I have waited for your words, I have given ear to your wisdom, as long as you were disputing in words.
And as long as I thought you said some thing, I considered : but, as I see, there is none of you that can convince Job, and answer his words.
Lest you should say : We have found wisdom, God hath cast him down, not man.
He hath spoken nothing to me, and I will not answer him according to your words.
They were afraid, and answered no more, and they left off speaking.
Therefore because I have waited, and they have not spoken : they stood, and answered no more :
I also will answer my part, and will shew my knowledge.
Behold, my belly is as new wine which wanteth vent, which bursteth the new vessels.

I will speak and take breath a little : I will open my lips, and will answer.
I will not accept the person of man, and I will not level God with man.
For I know not how long I shall continue, and whether after a while my Maker may take me away.
