Hear therefore, O Job, my speeches, and hearken to all my words.
Behold now I have opened my mouth, let my tongue speak within my jaws.
My words are from my upright heart, and my lips shall speak a pure sentence.
The spirit of God made me, and the breath of the Almighty gave me life.
If thou canst, answer me, and stand up against my face.
Behold God hath made me as well as thee, and of the same clay I also was formed.
But yet let not my wonder terrify thee, and let not my eloquence be burdensome to thee.
Now thou has said in my hearing, and I have heard the voice of thy words :
I am clean, and without sin : I am unspotted, and there is no iniquity in me.
Because he hath found complaints against me, therefore he hath counted me for his enemy.
He hath put my feet in the stocks, he hath observed all my paths.
Now this is the thing in which thou art not justified : I will answer thee, that God is greater than man.
Dost thou strive against him, because he hath not answered thee to all words?
God speaketh once, and repeateth not the selfsame thing the second time.
By a dream in a vision by night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, and they are sleeping in their beds :
Then he openeth the ears of men, and teaching instructeth them in what they are to learn.
That he may withdraw a man from the things he is doing, and may deliver him from pride.
Rescuing his soul from corruption : and his life from passing to the sword.
He rebuketh also by sorrow in the bed, and he maketh all his bones to wither.
Bread becometh abominable to him in his life, and to his soul the meat which before he desired.
His flesh shall be consumed away, and his bones that were covered shall be made bare.
His soul hath drawn near to corruption, and his life to the destroyers.
If there shall be an angel speaking for him, one among thousands, to declare man's uprightness,
He shall have mercy on him, and shall say : Deliver him, that he may not go down to corruption : I have found wherein I may be merciful to him.
His flesh is consumed with punishment, let him return to the days of his youth.
He shall pray to God, and he will be gracious to him : and he shall see his face with joy, and he will render to man his justice.
He shall look upon men, and shall say : I have sinned, and indeed I have offended, and I have not received what I have deserved.
He hath delivered his soul from going into destruction, that it may live and see the light.
Behold, all these things God worketh three times within every one.
That he may withdraw their souls from corruption, and enlighten them with the light of the living.
Attend, Job, and hearken to me : and hold thy peace, whilst I speak.
But if thou hast any thing to say, answer me, speak : for I would have thee to appear just.
And if thou have not, hear me : hold thy peace, and I will teach thee wisdom.
