Canst thou draw out the leviathan with a hook, or canst thou tie his tongue with a cord?
Canst thou put a ring in his nose, or bore through his jaw with a buckle?
Will he make many supplications to thee, or speak soft words to thee?
Will he make a covenant with thee, and wilt thou take him to be a servant for ever?
Shalt thou play with him as with a bird, or tie him up for thy handmaids?
Shall friends cut him in pieces, shall merchants divide him?
Wilt thou fill nets with his skin, and the cabins of fishes with his head?
Lay thy hand upon him : remember the battle, and speak no more.
Behold his hope shall fail him, and in the sight of all he shall be cast down.
I will not stir him up, like one that is cruel : for who can resist my countenance?
Who hath given me before that I should repay him? All things that are under heaven are mine.
I will not spare him, nor his mighty words, and framed to make supplication.
Who can discover the face of his garment? or who can go into the midst of his mouth?
Who can open the doors of his face? his teeth are terrible round about.
His body is like molten shields, shut close up with scales pressing upon one another.
One is joined to another, and not so much as any air can come between them :
They stick one to another and they hold one another fast, and shall not be separated.
His sneezing is like the shining of fire, and his eyes like the eyelids of the morning.
Out of his mouth go forth lamps, like torches of lighted fire.
Out of his nostrils goeth smoke, like that of a pot heated and boiling.
His breath kindleth coals, and a flame cometh forth out of his mouth.
In his neck strength shall dwell, and want goeth before his face.
The members of his flesh cleave one to another : he shall send lightnings against him, and they shall not be carried to another place.
His heart shall be as hard as a stone, and as firm as a smith's anvil.
When he shall raise him up, the angels shall fear, and being affrighted shall purify themselves.
When a sword shall lay at him, it shall not be able to hold, nor a spear, nor a breastplate.
For he shall esteem iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood.
The archer shall not put him to flight, the stones of the sling are to him like stubble.
As stubble will he esteem the hammer, and he will laugh him to scorn who shaketh the spear.
The beams of the sun shall be under him, and he shall strew gold under him like mire.
He shall make the deep sea to boil like a pot, and shall make it as when ointments boil.
A path shall shine after him, he shall esteem the deep as growing old.
There is no power upon earth that can be compared with him who was made to fear no one.
He beholdeth every high thing, he is king over all the children of pride.
