Then Job answered the Lord, and said :
I know that thou canst do all things, and no thought is hid from thee.
Who is this that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have spoken unwisely, and things that above measure exceeded my knowledge.
Hear, and I will speak : I will ask thee, and do thou tell me.
With the hearing of the ear, I have heard thee, but now my eye seeth thee.
Therefore I reprehend myself, and do penance in dust and ashes.
And after the Lord had spoken these words to Job, he said to Eliphaz the Themanite : My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends, because you have not spoken the thing that is right before my, as my servant Job hath.
Take unto you therefore seven oxen, and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer for yourselves a holocaust : and my servant Job shall pray for you : his face I will accept, that folly be not imputed to you : for you have not spoken right things before me, as my servant Job hath.
So Eliphaz the Themanite, and Baldad the Suhite, and Sophar the Naamathite went, and did as the Lord had spoken to them, and the Lord accepted the face of Job.
The Lord also was turned at the penance of Job, when he prayed for his friends. And the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before.
And all his brethren came to him, and all his sisters, and all that knew him before, and they ate bread with him in his house : and bemoaned him, and comforted him upon all the evil that God had brought upon him. And every man gave him one ewe, and one earring of fold.
And the Lord blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning. And he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses.
And he had seven sons, and three daughters.
And he called the names of one Dies, and the name of the second Cassia, and the name of the third Cornustibil.
And there were not found in all the earth women so beautiful as the daughters of Job : and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren.
And Job lived after these things, a hundred and forty years, and he saw his children, and his children's children, unto the fourth generation, 
and he died an old man, and full of days.
