And Job answered, and said:
Indeed I know it is so, and that man cannot be justified compared with
If he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one for a thousand.
He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath resisted him, and hath had peace ?
Who hath removed mountains, and they whom he overthrew in his wrath, knew it not.
Who shaketh the earth out of her place, and the pillars thereof tremble.
Who commandeth tile sun and it riseth not: and shutteth up the stars as it were under a seal:
Who alone spreadeth out the heavens, and walketh upon the waves of the sea.
Who maketh Arcturus, and Orion, and Hyades, and the inner parts of the south.
Who doth things great and incomprehensible, and wonderful, of which there is no number.
If he come to me, I shall not see him: if he depart I shall not understand.
If he examine on a sudden, who shall answer him? or who can say: Why dost thou so?
God, whose wrath no mall can resist, and under whom they stoop that bear up the world.
What am I then, that I should answer him, and have words with him?
I, who although I should have any just thing, would not answer, but would make supplication to my judge.
And if he should hear me when I call, I should not believe that he had heard my voice.
For he shall crush me in a whirlwind, and multiply my wounds even without cause.
He alloweth not my spirit to rest, and he filleth me with bitterness.
If strength be demanded, he is most strong: if equity of judgment, no man dare bear witness for me.
If I would justify myself, my own mouth shall condemn me: if I would shew myself innocent, he shall prove me wicked.
Although I should be simple, even this my soul shall be ignorant of, and I shall be weary of my life.
One thing there is that I have spoken, both the innocent and the wicked he consumeth.
If he scourge, let him kill at once, and not laugh at the pains of the innocent.
The earth is given into the hand of the wicked, he covereth the face of the judges thereof: and if it be not he, who is it then?
My days have been swifter than a post: they have fled away and have not seen good.
They have passed by as ships carrying fruits, as an eagle flying to the prey.
If I say: I will not speak so: I change my face, and am tormented with sorrow.
I feared all my works, knowing that thou didst not spare the offender.
But if so also I am wicked, why have I laboured in vain?
If I be washed as it were with snow waters, and my hands shall shine ever so clean :
Yet thou shalt plunge me in filth, and my garments shall abhor me,
For I shall not answer a man that is like myself: nor one that may be heard with me equally in judgment.
There is none that may be able to reprove both, and to put his hand between both.
Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his fear terrify me.
I will speak, and will not fear him: for I cannot answer while I am in fear.
