Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,
"Should a wise man answer with vain knowledge,    And fill himself with the east wind?
Should he reason with unprofitable talk,    Or with speeches with which he can do no good?
Yes, you do away with fear,    And hinder devotion before God.
For your iniquity teaches your mouth,    And you choose the language of the crafty.
Your own mouth condemns you, and not I;    Yes, your own lips testify against you.
"Are you the first man who was born?    Or were you brought forth before the hills?
Have you heard the secret counsel of God?    Do you limit wisdom to yourself?
What do you know, that we don't know?    What do you understand, which is not in us?
With us are both the gray-headed and the very aged men,    Much elder than your father.
Are the consolations of God too small for you,    Even the word that is gentle toward you?
Why does your heart carry you away?    Why do your eyes flash,
That you turn your spirit against God,    And let such words go out of your mouth?
What is man, that he should be clean?    He who is born of a woman, that he should be righteous?
Behold, he puts no trust in his holy ones;    Yes, the heavens are not clean in his sight:
How much less one who is abominable and corrupt,    A man who drinks iniquity like water!
"I will show you, listen to me;    That which I have seen I will declare:
(Which wise men have told    From their fathers, and have not hidden it;
To whom alone the land was given,    And no stranger passed among them):
The wicked man travails with pain all his days,    Even the number of years that are laid up for the oppressor.
A sound of terrors is in his ears;    In prosperity the destroyer shall come on him.
He doesn't believe that he shall return out of darkness,    He is waited for by the sword.
He wanders abroad for bread, saying, 'Where is it?'    He knows that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.
Distress and anguish make him afraid;    They prevail against him, as a king ready to the battle.
Because he has stretched out his hand against God,    And behaves himself proudly against the Almighty;
He runs at him with a stiff neck,    With the thick shields of his bucklers;
Because he has covered his face with his fatness,    And gathered fat on his loins.
He has lived in desolate cities,    In houses which no one inhabited,    Which were ready to become heaps.
He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue,    Neither shall their possessions be extended on the earth.
He shall not depart out of darkness;    The flame shall dry up his branches,    By the breath of God's mouth shall he go away.
Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself;    For emptiness shall be his reward.
It shall be accomplished before his time.    His branch shall not be green.
He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine,    And shall cast off his flower as the olive-tree.
For the company of the godless shall be barren,    And fire shall consume the tents of bribery.
They conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity.    Their heart prepares deceit."
