Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, even so do ye.
Upon the first day of the week, let every one of you lay by him in store, as God hath prospered him, that there be no collections when I come.
And when I come, whomsoever ye shall approve by your letters, them will I send to bring your liberality to Jerusalem.
And if it be proper that I should go also, they shall go with me.
Now I will come to you, when I shall pass through Macedonia: for I am to pass through Macedonia.
And it may be that I shall abide, and even winter with you, that ye may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go.
For I will not see you now by the way; but I trust to tarry a while with you, if the Lord permit.
But I shall tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost.
For a great door and effectual is opened to me, and there are many adversaries.
Now if Timothy come, see that he may be with you without fear: for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also do.
Let no man therefore despise him: but conduct him forth in peace, that he may come to me: for I look for him with the brethren.
As concerning our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to come to you with the brethren: but his will was not at all to come at this time; but he will come when he shall have convenient time.
Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, acquit yourselves like men, be strong.
Let all your things be done with charity.
I beseech you, brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints,)
That ye submit yourselves to such, and to every one that helpeth with us, and laboreth.
I am glad of the coming of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus: for that which was lacking on your part, they have supplied.
For they have refreshed my spirit and yours: therefore acknowledge ye them that are such.
The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house.
All the brethren greet you. Greet ye one another with a holy kiss.
The salutation of me Paul with my own hand.
If any man loveth not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema, Maran-atha.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.
