And the sons of Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, took each of them  his censer, and put fire in it, and put incense on it, and  presented strange fire before Jehovah, which he had not  commanded them.
And there went out fire from before Jehovah, and devoured  them, and they died before Jehovah.
And Moses said to Aaron, This is what Jehovah spoke,  saying, I will be hallowed in them that come near me, and  before all the people I will be glorified. And Aaron was  silent.
And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel  the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Come near, carry your  brethren from before the sanctuary out of the camp.
And they went near, and carried them in their vests out of  the camp, as Moses had said.
And Moses said to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar his  sons, Your heads shall ye not uncover, neither rend your  clothes; lest ye die, and lest wrath come on all the assembly;  but your brethren, the whole house of Israel, shall bewail the  burning which Jehovah hath kindled.
And ye shall not go out from the entrance of the tent of  meeting, lest ye die; for the anointing oil of Jehovah is upon  you. And they did according to the word of Moses.
And Jehovah spoke to Aaron, saying,
Thou shalt not drink wine nor strong drink, thou, and thy  sons with thee, when ye go into the tent of meeting, lest ye  die -- \it is\ an everlasting statute throughout your  generations,
that ye may put difference between the holy and the  unholy, and between unclean and clean,
and that ye may teach the children of Israel all the  statutes which Jehovah hath spoken to them by the hand of  Moses.
And Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar,  his sons that were left, Take the oblation that is left of  Jehovah`s offerings by fire, and eat it with unleavened bread  beside the altar; for it is most holy.
And ye shall eat it in a holy place, because it is thy  due, and thy sons` due, of Jehovah`s offerings by fire; for so  I am commanded.
And the breast of the wave-offering, and the shoulder of  the heave-offering shall ye eat in a clean place, thou, and thy  sons, and thy daughters with thee; for \as\ thy due, and thy  sons` due, are they given of the sacrifices of peace-offerings  of the children of Israel.
The shoulder of the heave-offering and the breast of the  wave-offering shall they bring, with the fire-offering of the  pieces of fat, to wave \them\ as a wave-offering before  Jehovah; and they shall be thine, and thy sons` with thee, for  an everlasting statute, as Jehovah has commanded.
And Moses diligently sought the goat of the sin-offering,  and behold, it was burnt up: then he was wroth with Eleazar and  Ithamar, the sons of Aaron that were left, saying,
Why have ye not eaten the sin-offering in a holy place?  for it is most holy, and he has given it to you that ye might  bear the iniquity of the assembly, to make atonement for them  before Jehovah.
Lo, its blood was not brought in within the sanctuary: ye  should certainly have eaten it in the sanctuary, as I  commanded.
And Aaron said to Moses, Behold, to-day have they  presented their sin-offering and their burnt-offering before  Jehovah; and such things have befallen me; and had I to-day  eaten the sin-offering, would it have been good in the sight of  Jehovah?
And Moses heard it; and it was good in his sight.
