And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them,
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, These are the  animals which ye shall eat of all the beasts which are on the  earth.
Whatever hath cloven hoofs, and feet quite split open, and  cheweth the cud, among the beasts -- that shall ye eat.
Only these shall ye not eat of those that chew the cud, or  of those with cloven hoofs: the camel, for it cheweth the cud,  but hath not cloven hoofs -- it shall be unclean unto you;
and the rock-badger, for it cheweth the cud, but hath not  cloven hoofs -- it shall be unclean unto you;
and the hare, for it cheweth the cud, but hath not cloven  hoofs -- it shall be unclean unto you;
and the swine, for it hath cloven hoofs, and feet quite  split open, but it cheweth not the cud -- it shall be unclean  unto you.
Of their flesh shall ye not eat, and their carcase shall ye  not touch: they shall be unclean unto you.
These shall ye eat of all that are in the waters: whatever  hath fins and scales in waters, in seas and in rivers, these  shall ye eat;
but all that have not fins and scales in seas and in  rivers, of all that swarm in the waters, and of every living  soul which is in the waters -- they shall be an abomination  unto you.
They shall be even an abomination unto you: of their flesh  shall ye not eat, and their carcase ye shall have in  abomination.
Whatever in the waters hath no fins and scales, that shall  be an abomination unto you.
And these shall ye have in abomination of the fowls; they  shall not be eaten; an abomination shall they be: the eagle,  and the ossifrage, and the sea-eagle,
and the falcon, and the kite, after its kind;
every raven after its kind;
and the female ostrich and the male ostrich, and the  sea-gull, and the hawk, after its kind;
and the owl, and the gannet, and the ibis,
and the swan, and the pelican, and the carrion vulture,
and the stork; the heron after its kind, and the hoopoe,  and the bat.
Every winged crawling thing that goeth upon all four shall  be an abomination unto you.
Yet these shall ye eat of every winged crawling thing that  goeth upon all four: those which have legs above their feet  with which to leap upon the earth.
These shall ye eat of them: the arbeh after its kind, and  the solam after its kind, and the hargol after its kind, and  the hargab after its kind.
But every winged crawling thing that hath four feet shall  be an abomination unto you.
And by these ye shall make yourselves unclean; whoever  toucheth their carcase shall be unclean until the even.
And whoever carrieth \ought\ of their carcase shall wash  his garments, and be unclean until the even.
Every beast that hath cloven hoofs, but not feet quite  split open, nor cheweth the cud, shall be unclean unto you:  every one that toucheth them shall be unclean.
And whatever goeth on its paws, among all manner of beasts  that go upon all four, those are unclean unto you: whoever  toucheth their carcase shall be unclean until the even.
And he that carrieth their carcase shall wash his  garments, and be unclean until the even: they shall be unclean  unto you.
And these shall be unclean unto you among the crawling  things which crawl on the earth: the mole, and the field-mouse,  and the lizard, after its kind;
and the groaning lizard, and the great red lizard, and the  climbing lizard, and the chomet, and the chameleon.
These shall be unclean unto you among all that crawl:  whoever toucheth them when they are dead, shall be unclean  until the even.
And on whatever any of them when they are dead doth fall,  it shall be unclean; all vessels of wood, or garment, or skin,  or sack, every vessel wherewith work is done -- it shall be put  into water, and be unclean until the even; then shall it be  clean.
And every earthen vessel into which \any\ of them falleth  -- whatever is in it shall be unclean; and ye shall break it.
All food that is eaten on which \such\ water hath come  shall be unclean; and all drink that is drunk shall be unclean,  in every \such\ vessel.
And everything where upon \any part\ of their carcase  falleth shall be unclean; oven and hearth shall be broken down:  they are unclean, and shall be unclean unto you.
Nevertheless, a spring or a well, a quantity of water,  shall be clean. But he that toucheth their carcase shall be  unclean.
And if any part of their carcase fall upon any sowing-seed  which is to be sown, it shall be clean;
but if water have been put on the seed, and any part of  their carcase fall thereon, it shall be unclean unto you.
And if any beast which is to you for food die, he that  toucheth the carcase thereof shall be unclean until the even.
And he that eateth of its carcase shall wash his garments,  and be unclean until the even: he also that carrieth its  carcase shall wash his garments, and be unclean until the even.
And every crawling thing which crawleth on the earth shall  be an abomination; it shall not be eaten.
Whatever goeth on the belly, and whatever goeth on all  four, and all that have a great many feet, of every manner of  crawling thing which crawleth on the earth -- these ye shall  not eat; for they are an abomination.
Ye shall not make yourselves abominable through any  crawling thing which crawleth, neither shall ye make yourselves  unclean with them, that ye should be defiled thereby.
For I am Jehovah your God; and ye shall hallow yourselves,  and ye shall be holy; for I am holy; and ye shall not make  yourselves unclean through any manner of crawling thing which  creepeth on the earth.
For I am Jehovah who brought you up out of the land of  Egypt, to be your God: ye shall therefore be holy, for I am  holy.
This is the law of cattle, and of fowl, and of every  living soul that moveth in the waters, and of every soul that  crawleth on the earth;
to make a difference between the unclean and the clean,  and between the beast that is to be eaten and the beast that is  not to be eaten.
