And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, If  any man have a flux from his flesh, because of his flux he is  unclean.
And this shall be his uncleanness in his flux: whether his  flesh run with his flux, or his flesh be closed from his flux,  it is his uncleanness.
Every bed whereon he lieth that hath the flux shall be  unclean; and every object on which he sitteth shall be unclean.
And whoever toucheth his bed shall wash his garments, and  bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
And he that sitteth on any object whereon he sat that hath  the flux shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be  unclean until the even.
And he that toucheth the flesh of him that hath the flux  shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean  until the even.
And if he that hath the flux spit upon him that is clean,  then he shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be  unclean until the even.
And what carriage soever he rideth upon that hath the flux  shall be unclean.
And whoever toucheth anything that was under him shall be  unclean until the even; and he that carrieth them shall wash  his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the  even.
And whomsoever he toucheth who hath the flux and hath not  rinsed his hands in water -- he shall wash his garments, and  bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
And the vessel of earth that he toucheth who hath the flux  shall be broken; and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in  water.
And when he that hath a flux is clean of his flux, then he  shall count seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes,  and bathe his flesh in running water, and he shall be clean.
And on the eighth day he shall take two turtle-doves, or  two young pigeons, and come before Jehovah unto the entrance of  the tent of meeting, and give them unto the priest.
And the priest shall offer them, one as a sin-offering,  and one as a burnt-offering; and the priest shall make  atonement for him before Jehovah for his flux.
And if any man`s seed of copulation pass from him, then he  shall bathe his whole flesh in water, and be unclean until the  even.
And every garment, and every skin, whereon the seed of  copulation shall be, shall be washed with water, and be unclean  until the even.
And a woman with whom a man lieth with seed of copulation  -- they shall bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
And if a woman have a flux, and her flux in her flesh be  blood, she shall be seven days in her separation, and whoever  toucheth her shall be unclean until the even.
And everything that she lieth upon in her separation shall  be unclean; and everything that she sitteth upon shall be  unclean.
And whoever toucheth her bed shall wash his garments, and  bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
And whoever toucheth any object that she sat upon shall  wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the  even.
And if it be on the bed, or on anything whereon she  sitteth, when he toucheth it, he shall be unclean until the  even.
And if a man lie with her at all, and the uncleanness of  her separation come upon him, he shall be unclean seven days;  and every bed whereon he lieth shall be unclean.
And if a woman have her flux of blood many days out of the  time of her separation, or if she have the flux beyond the time  of her separation, all the days of the flux of her uncleanness  shall she be as \in\ the days of her separation: she is  unclean.
Every bed whereon she lieth all the days of her flux shall  be unto her as the bed of her separation; and every object on  which she sitteth shall be unclean, according to the  uncleanness of her separation.
And whoever toucheth them shall be unclean, and shall wash  his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
And if she be cleansed of her flux then she shall count  seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
And on the eighth day she shall take two turtle-doves, or  two young pigeons, and bring them unto the priest, unto the  entrance of the tent of meeting.
And the priest shall offer the one as a sin-offering, and  the other as a burnt-offering; and the priest shall make  atonement for her before Jehovah for the flux of her  uncleanness.
And ye shall separate the children of Israel from their  uncleanness, that they die not in their uncleanness, when they  defile my tabernacle that is in their midst.
This is the law for him that hath a flux, and for the one  whose seed of copulation goeth from him, and who is defiled  therewith:
and for a woman who is sick in her separation, and for him  that hath his flux; for the man and for the woman, and for him  that lieth with her that is unclean.
