And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, I am  Jehovah your God.
After the doings of the land of Egypt, wherein ye dwelt,  shall ye not do; and after the doings of the land of Canaan,  whither I bring you, shall ye not do; neither shall ye walk in  their customs.
Mine ordinances shall ye do and my statutes shall ye  observe to walk therein: I am Jehovah your God.
And ye shall observe my statutes and my judgments, by which  the man that doeth them shall live: I am Jehovah.
No one shall approach to any that is his near relation, to  uncover his nakedness: I am Jehovah.
The nakedness of thy father, and the nakedness of thy  mother, shalt thou not uncover: she is thy mother: thou shalt  not uncover her nakedness.
The nakedness of thy father`s wife shalt thou not uncover:  it is thy father`s nakedness.
The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or  daughter of thy mother, born at home, or born abroad -- their  nakedness shalt thou not uncover.
The nakedness of thy son`s daughter, or of thy daughter`s  daughter -- their nakedness shalt thou not uncover; for theirs  is thy nakedness.
The nakedness of thy father`s wife`s daughter, begotten of  thy father: she is thy sister: thou shalt not uncover her  nakedness.
The nakedness of thy father`s sister shalt thou not  uncover: she is thy father`s near relation.
The nakedness of thy mother`s sister shalt thou not  uncover; for she is thy mother`s near relation.
The nakedness of thy father`s brother shalt thou not  uncover; thou shalt not approach his wife: she is thine aunt.
The nakedness of thy daughter-in-law shalt thou not  uncover: she is thy son`s wife; thou shalt not uncover her  nakedness.
The nakedness of thy brother`s wife shalt thou not  uncover: it is thy brother`s nakedness.
The nakedness of a woman and her daughter shalt thou not  uncover; thou shalt not take her son`s daughter, nor her  daughter`s daughter, to uncover her nakedness: they are her  near relations: it is wickedness.
And thou shalt not take a wife to her sister, to vex her,  to uncover her nakedness beside her, during her life.
And thou shalt not approach a woman in the separation of  her uncleanness to uncover her nakedness.
And thou shalt not lie carnally with thy neighbour`s wife,  to become unclean with her.
And thou shalt not give of thy seed to let them pass  through \the fire\ to Molech, neither shalt thou profane the  name of thy God: I am Jehovah.
And thou shalt not lie with mankind as one lieth with a  woman: it is an abomination.
And thou shalt lie with no beast to become unclean  therewith; and a woman shall not stand before a beast to lie  down with it: it is confusion.
Make not yourselves unclean in any of these things; for in  all these have the nations which I am casting out before you  made themselves unclean.
And the land hath become unclean; and I visit the iniquity  thereof upon it, and the land vomiteth out its inhabitants.
But *ye* shall observe my statutes and my judgments, and  shall not commit any of all these abominations: the home-born,  and the stranger that sojourneth among you;
(for all these abominations have the men of the land done,  who were before you, and the land hath been made unclean);
that the land vomit you not out, when ye make it unclean,  as it vomited out the nation that was before you.
For whoever committeth any of these abominations, ... the  souls that commit them shall be cut off from among their  people.
And ye shall observe my charge, that ye commit not \any\  of the abominable customs which were committed before you; and  ye shall not make yourselves unclean therein: I am Jehovah your  God.
