And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak unto all the assembly of the children of Israel, and  say unto them, Holy shall ye be, for I Jehovah your God am  holy.
Ye shall reverence every man his mother, and his father,  and my sabbaths shall ye keep: I am Jehovah your God.
Ye shall not turn unto idols, and ye shall not make to  yourselves molten gods: I am Jehovah your God.
And if ye sacrifice a sacrifice of peace-offering to  Jehovah, ye shall sacrifice it for your acceptance.
On the day when ye sacrifice it shall it be eaten, and on  the morrow; and that which remaineth until the third day shall  be burned with fire.
And if it be eaten at all on the third day, it is an  unclean thing: it shall not be accepted.
And he that eateth it shall bear his iniquity; for he hath  profaned the hallowed thing of Jehovah; and that soul shall be  cut off from among his peoples.
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not  wholly reap the corners of thy field, and the gleaning of thy  harvest thou shalt not gather.
And thy vineyard shalt thou not glean, neither shalt thou  gather what hath been left of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave  them for the poor and the stranger: I am Jehovah your God.
Ye shall not steal, and ye shall not deal falsely, and ye  shall not lie one to another.
And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the  name of thy God: I am Jehovah.
Thou shalt not oppress thy neighbour, neither rob him. The  wages of the hired servant shall not abide with thee all night  until the morning.
Thou shalt not revile a deaf person, and thou shalt not  put a stumbling-block before a blind one; but thou shalt fear  thy God: I am Jehovah.
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment; thou shalt not  respect the person of the lowly, nor honour the person of the  great; in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbour.
Thou shalt not go about as a talebearer among thy people;  thou shalt not stand up against the life of thy neighbour: I am  Jehovah.
Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thy heart; thou shalt  earnestly rebuke thy neighbour, lest thou bear sin on account  of him.
Thou shalt not avenge thyself, nor bear any grudge against  the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbour  as thyself: I am Jehovah.
My statutes shall ye observe. Thou shalt not let thy  cattle gender with another sort; thou shalt not sow thy field  with seed of two sorts; and a garment woven of two materials  shall not come upon thee.
And if a man lie with a woman for copulation, and she is a  bondwoman betrothed to a husband, but not at all ransomed, nor  hath freedom been given to her, there shall be a chastisement:  they shall not be put to death, for she was not free.
And he shall bring his trespass-offering to Jehovah, unto  the entrance of the tent of meeting, a ram for a  trespass-offering.
And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram  of the trespass-offering before Jehovah for his sin which he  hath done; and the sin which he hath done shall be forgiven  him.
And when ye come into the land and plant all manner of  trees for food, then ye shall count its fruit as uncircumcised,  three years shall it be uncircumcised unto you: it shall not be  eaten of;
and in the fourth year all the fruit thereof shall be holy  for praise to Jehovah;
and in the fifth year shall ye eat the fruit thereof, that  it may increase unto you the produce thereof: I am Jehovah your  God.
Ye shall eat nothing with the blood. -- Ye shall not  practise enchantment, nor use auguries.
-- Ye shall not shave the corners of your head round,  neither shalt thou mutilate the corners of thy beard.
And cuttings for a dead person shall ye not make in your  flesh, nor put any tattoo writing upon you: I am Jehovah.
-- Do not profane thy daughter, to give her up to  whoredom; lest the land practise whoredom, and the land become  full of infamy.
-- My sabbaths shall ye keep, and my sanctuary shall ye  reverence: I am Jehovah.
-- Turn not unto necromancers and unto soothsayers; seek  not after them to make yourselves unclean: I am Jehovah your  God.
Before the hoary head thou shalt rise up, and shalt honour  the face of an old man; and thou shalt fear thy God: I am  Jehovah.
And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall  not molest him.
As one born among you shall the stranger who sojourneth  with you be unto you; and thou shalt love him as thyself; for  ye were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am Jehovah your God.
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measure of  length, in weight, and in measure of capacity:
just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin  shall ye have: I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of  the land of Egypt.
And ye shall observe all my statutes, and all mine  ordinances, and do them: I am Jehovah.
