And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Thou shalt say also to the children of Israel, Every one of  the children of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn in  Israel, that giveth of his seed unto Molech, shall certainly be  put to death: the people of the land shall stone him with  stones.
And I will set my face against that man, and will cut him  off from among his people; because he hath given of his seed  unto Molech, so as to make my sanctuary unclean, and to profane  my holy name.
And if the people of the land do any ways hide their eyes  from that man, when he giveth of his seed unto Molech, that  they kill him not,
then I will set my face against that man, and against his  family, and will cut him off, and all that go a whoring after  him, to commit whoredom with Molech, from among their people.
-- And the soul that turneth unto necromancers and unto  soothsayers, to go a whoring after them, I will set my face  against that soul, and will cut him off from among his people.
Hallow yourselves therefore, and be holy; for I am Jehovah  your God.
And ye shall observe my statutes, and do them: I am Jehovah  who hallow you.
Whatever man revileth his father and his mother shall  certainly be put to death: he hath reviled his father and his  mother; his blood is upon him.
And a man that committeth adultery with a man`s wife, who  committeth adultery with his neighbour`s wife, -- the adulterer  and the adulteress shall certainly be put to death.
And a man that lieth with his father`s wife hath uncovered  his father`s nakedness: both of them shall certainly be put to  death; their blood is upon them.
And if a man lie with his daughter-in-law, both of them  shall certainly be put to death: they have wrought confusion;  their blood is upon them.
And if a man lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman,  both of them have committed an abomination: they shall  certainly be put to death; their blood is upon them.
And if a man take a wife and her mother, it is infamy:  they shall burn him and them with fire, that there be no infamy  among you.
And if a man lie with a beast for copulation, he shall  certainly be put to death; and ye shall kill the beast.
And if a woman approach unto any beast to gender  therewith, thou shalt kill the woman and the beast: they shall  certainly be put to death; their blood is upon them.
And if a man take his sister, his father`s daughter, or  his mother`s daughter, and see her nakedness, and she see his  nakedness, that is a disgrace; and they shall be cut off before  the eyes of the children of their people: he hath uncovered his  sister`s nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.
And if a man shall lie with a woman in her infirmity, and  uncover her nakedness, her flux doth he lay bare, and she hath  uncovered the fountain of her blood; and both of them shall be  cut off from among their people.
And the nakedness of thy mother`s sister, and of thy  father`s sister shalt thou not uncover; for he hath laid naked  his near relation: they shall bear their iniquity.
And if a man lie with his aunt, he hath uncovered his  uncle`s nakedness: their sin shall they bear: they shall die  childless.
And if a man take his brother`s wife, it is an unclean  thing: he hath uncovered his brother`s nakedness: they shall be  childless.
And ye shall observe all my statutes, and all mine  ordinances, and do them, that the land whither I bring you to  dwell therein vomit you not out.
And ye shall not walk in the customs of the nation which I  am casting out before you; for all these things have they done,  and they became an abomination to me.
And I have said unto you, Ye shall possess their land, and  I will give it unto you for a possession; a land flowing with  milk and honey: I am Jehovah your God, who have separated you  from the peoples.
And ye shall make a separation between the clean beast and  the unclean, and between the unclean fowl and the clean, and ye  shall not make yourselves an abomination by beast, or by fowl,  or by anything that creepeth on the ground which I have  separated for you, declaring \it\ as unclean.
And ye shall be holy unto me; for I Jehovah am holy, and  have separated you from the peoples to be mine.
And if there be a man or a woman in whom is a spirit of  Python or of divination, they shall certainly be put to death:  they shall stone them with stones; their blood is upon them.
