And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the children of Israel that they bring unto thee  pure beaten olive oil for the light, to light the lamp  continually.
Outside the veil of the testimony, in the tent of meeting,  shall Aaron dress it from evening to morning before Jehovah  continually: \it is\ an everlasting statute throughout your  generations.
Upon the pure candlestick shall he arrange the lamps before  Jehovah continually.
And thou shalt take fine wheaten flour, and bake twelve  cakes thereof; each cake shall be of two tenths.
And thou shalt set them in two rows, six in a row, upon the  pure table before Jehovah.
And thou shalt put pure frankincense upon each row; and it  shall be a bread of remembrance, an offering by fire to  Jehovah.
Every sabbath day he shall arrange it before Jehovah  continually, on the part of the children of Israel: \it is\ an  everlasting covenant.
And it shall be Aaron`s and his sons`; and they shall eat  it in a holy place; for it is most holy unto him of Jehovah`s  offerings by fire: \it is\ an everlasting statute.
And the son of an Israelitish woman -- but withal the son  of an Egyptian, -- went out among the children of Israel; and  this son of the Israelitess and a man of Israel strove together  in the camp;
and the Israelitish woman`s son blasphemed the Name, and  cursed; and they brought him to Moses. And his mother`s name  was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
And they confined him, that they might decide at the mouth  of Jehovah.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Lead the reviler outside the camp; and all that heard  \him\ shall lay their hands upon his head, and the whole  assembly shall stone him.
And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying,  Every one when he revileth his God shall bear his sin.
And he that blasphemeth the name of Jehovah shall  certainly be put to death; all the assembly shall certainly  stone him; as well the stranger as he that is home-born, when  he blasphemeth the Name, shall be put to death.
And if any one smiteth any man mortally, he shall  certainly be put to death.
And he that smiteth a beast mortally shall make it good,  life for life.
And if a man cause a blemish in his neighbour, as he hath  done, so shall it be done to him;
breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth: as he  hath caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be done to him.
He that smiteth a beast \mortally\ shall make it good; and  he that smiteth a man \mortally\ shall be put to death.
Ye shall have one law: as the stranger, so the home-born;  for I am Jehovah your God.
And Moses spoke to the children of Israel; and they led  the reviler outside the camp and stoned him with stones. And  the children of Israel did as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
