Ye shall make yourselves no idols, neither rear you up for  yourselves carved image, or statue, nor shall ye set up a  figured stone in your land, to bow down unto it; for I am  Jehovah your God.
Ye shall observe my sabbaths, and my sanctuary shall ye  reverence: I am Jehovah.
If ye walk in my statutes, and observe my commandments and  do them,
then I will give your rain in the season thereof, and the  land shall yield its produce, and the trees of the field shall  yield their fruit;
and your threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the  vintage shall reach unto the sowing-time; and ye shall eat your  bread to the full, and dwell in your land securely.
And I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down,  and none shall make you afraid; and I will put away the evil  beasts out of the land; and the sword shall not go through your  land.
And ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before  you by the sword;
and five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you  shall put ten thousand to flight; and your enemies shall fall  beside you by the sword.
And I will turn my face towards you and make you fruitful,  and multiply you, and establish my covenant with you.
And ye shall eat old store, and clear away the old because  of the new.
And I will set my habitation among you; and my soul shall  not abhor you;
and I will walk among you, and will be your God, and ye  shall be to me a people.
I am Jehovah your God, who brought you forth out of the  land of Egypt, that ye should not be their bondmen; and I have  broken the bands of your yoke, and made you walk upright.
But if ye hearken not unto me, and do not all these  commandments,
and if ye shall despise my statutes, and if your soul  shall abhor mine ordinances, so that ye do not all my  commandments, that ye break my covenant,
I also will do this unto you -- I will even appoint over  you terror, consumption, and fever, which shall cause the eyes  to fail, and the soul to waste away; and ye shall sow your seed  in vain, for your enemies shall eat it.
And I will set my face against you, that ye may be routed  before your enemies; they that hate you shall have dominion  over you; and ye shall flee when none pursueth you.
And if for this ye hearken not unto me, I will punish you  sevenfold more for your sins,
and I will break the arrogance of your power; and I will  make your heaven as iron, and your earth as bronze,
and your strength shall be spent in vain, and your land  shall not yield its produce; and the trees of the land shall  not yield their fruit.
And if ye walk contrary unto me, and will not hearken unto  me, I will bring sevenfold more plagues upon you according to  your sins.
And I will send the beasts of the field among you, that  they may rob you of your children, and cut off your cattle, and  make you few in number; and your streets shall be desolate.
And if ye will not be disciplined by me through these, but  walk contrary unto me,
then will I also walk contrary unto you, and will smite  you, even I, sevenfold for your sins.
And I will bring a sword upon you that avengeth with the  vengeance of the covenant, and ye shall be gathered together  into your cities, and I will send the pestilence among you; and  ye shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy.
When I break the staff of your bread, ten women shall bake  your bread in one oven, and shall deliver you the bread again  by weight; and ye shall eat, and not be satisfied.
And if for this ye hearken not to me, but walk contrary  unto me,
then I will walk contrary unto you also in fury; and I,  even I, will chastise you seven-fold for your sins.
And ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of  your daughters shall ye eat.
And I will lay waste your high places, and cut down your  sun-pillars, and cast your carcases upon the carcases of your  idols; and my soul shall abhor you.
And I will lay waste your cities and desolate your  sanctuaries; and I will not smell your sweet odours.
And I will bring the land into desolation; that your  enemies who dwell there in may be astonished at it.
And I will scatter you among the nations, and will draw  out the sword after you; and your land shall be desolation, and  your cities waste.
Then shall the land enjoy its sabbaths all the days of the  desolation, when ye are in your enemies` land; then shall the  land rest, and enjoy its sabbaths.
All the days of the desolation it shall rest, \the days  in\ which it did not rest on your sabbaths, when ye dwelt  therein.
And as to those that remain of you -- I will send  faintness into their hearts in the lands of their enemies, that  the sound of a driven leaf shall chase them, and they shall  flee, as fleeing from a sword; and they shall fall when none  pursueth;
and they shall stumble one over another, as it were before  a sword, when none pursueth; and ye shall have no power to  stand before your enemies.
And ye shall perish among the nations, and the land of  your enemies shall eat you up.
And they that remain of you shall waste away through their  iniquity in your enemies` lands; and also through the  iniquities of their fathers shall they waste away with them.
And they shall confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of  their fathers, through their unfaithfulness wherein they were  unfaithful to me, and also that they have walked contrary unto  me,
so that I also walked contrary unto them, and brought them  into the land of their enemies. If then their uncircumcised  heart be humbled, and they then accept the punishment of their  iniquity,
I will remember my covenant with Jacob, and also my  covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham will I  remember; and I will remember the land.
For the land shall be left by them, and shall enjoy its  sabbaths, when it is in desolation without them; and they shall  accept the punishment of their iniquity; because, even because  they despised my judgments, and their soul abhorred my  statutes.
And yet for all that, when they are in the land of their  enemies, I will not despise them, and will not abhor them, to  make an end of them utterly, to break my covenant with them,  for I am Jehovah their God.
But I will remember toward them the covenant with their  ancestors whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt before  the eyes of the nations, that I might be their God: I am  Jehovah.
These are the statutes and ordinances and laws which  Jehovah made between him and the children of Israel in mount  Sinai, by the hand of Moses.
