And if his offering be a sacrifice of peace-offering, -- if  he present \it\ of the herd, whether a male or female, he shall  present it without blemish before Jehovah.
And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and  slaughter it at the entrance of the tent of meeting; and  Aaron`s sons, the priests, shall sprinkle the blood on the  altar round about.
And he shall present of the sacrifice of peace-offering an  offering by fire to Jehovah; the fat that covereth the inwards,  and all the fat that is on the inwards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is  by the flanks, and the net above the liver which he shall take  away as far as the kidneys;
and Aaron`s sons shall burn it on the altar upon the  burnt-offering which \lieth\ on the wood that is upon the fire:  \it is\ an offering by fire to Jehovah of a sweet odour.
And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace-offering to  Jehovah be of small cattle, male or female, he shall present it  without blemish.
If he present a sheep for his offering, then shall he  present it before Jehovah,
and shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and  slaughter it before the tent of meeting; and Aaron`s sons shall  sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.
And he shall present of the sacrifice of peace-offering an  offering by fire to Jehovah; the fat thereof, the whole fat  tail, which he shall take off close by the backbone, and the  fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is on the  inwards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is  by the flanks, and the net above the liver which he shall take  away as far as the kidneys;
and the priest shall burn it on the altar: \it is\ the food  of the offering by fire to Jehovah.
And if his offering be a goat, then he shall present it  before Jehovah.
And he shall lay his hand on the head of it, and slaughter  it before the tent of meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall  sprinkle the blood thereof on the altar round about.
And he shall present thereof his offering, an offering by  fire to Jehovah; the fat that covereth the inwards and all the  fat that is on the inwards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is  by the flanks, and the net above the liver which he shall take  away as far as the kidneys;
and the priest shall burn them on the altar: \it is\ the  food of the offering by fire for a sweet odour. All the fat  \shall be\ Jehovah`s.
\It is\ an everlasting statute for your generations  throughout all your dwellings: no fat and no blood shall ye  eat.
