If however you  have risen with Christ,  seek the things that are above, where Christ is, enthroned at God's right hand.
Give your minds to the things that are above, not to the things that are on the earth.
For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
When Christ appears--He is  our true Life--then you also will appear with Him in glory.
Therefore put to death your earthward inclinations--fornication, impurity, sensual passion, unholy desire, and all greed, for that is a form of idolatry.
It is on account of these very sins that God's anger is coming,
and you also were once addicted to them, while you were living under their power.
But now you must rid yourselves of every kind of sin--angry and passionate outbreaks, ill-will, evil speaking, foul-mouthed abuse--so that these may never soil your lips.
Do not speak falsehoods to one another, for you have stripped off the old self with its doings,
and have clothed yourselves with the new self which is being remoulded into full knowledge so as to become like Him who created it.
In that new creation  there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, slave nor free man, but Christ is everything and is  in all of us.
Clothe yourselves therefore, as God's own people holy and dearly loved, with tender-heartedness, kindness, lowliness of mind, meekness, long-suffering;
bearing with one another and readily forgiving each other, if any one has a grievance against another. Just as  the Lord has forgiven you, you also must forgive.
And over all these put on love, which is the perfect bond of union;
and let the peace which Christ gives settle all questionings in your hearts, to which peace indeed you were called as belonging to His one Body; and be thankful.
Let the teaching  concerning Christ remain as a rich treasure in your hearts.  In all wisdom teach and admonish one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, and sing with grace in your hearts to God.
And whatever you do, in word or in deed, do everything  in the name of the Lord Jesus, and let it be through Him that you give thanks to God the Father.
Married women, be submissive to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
Married men, be affectionate to your wives, and do not treat them harshly.
Children be obedient to your parents in everything; for that is right for Christians.
Fathers, do not fret and harass your children, or you may make them sullen and morose.
Slaves, be obedient in everything to your earthly masters; not  in acts of eye service, as aiming only to please men, but with simplicity of purpose, because you fear the Lord.
Whatever you are doing, let your hearts be in your work, as a thing done for the Lord and not for men.
For you know that it is from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. Christ is the Master whose bondservants you are.
The man who perpetrates a wrong will find the wrong repaid to him; and with God there are  no merely earthly distinctions.
