Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, according to the promise of the life which is in Christ Jesus,
to Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers in a pure conscience, how unceasing is my remembrance of thee in my supplications, night and day
longing to see thee, remembering thy tears, that I may be filled with joy;
having been reminded of the unfeigned faith that is in thee; which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and, I am persuaded, in thee also.
For which cause I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee through the laying on of my hands.
For God gave us not a spirit of fearfulness; but of power and love and discipline.
Be not ashamed therefore of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but suffer hardship with the gospel according to the power of God;
who saved us, and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before times eternal,
but hath now been manifested by the appearing of our Saviour Christ Jesus, who abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,
whereunto I was appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher.
For which cause I suffer also these things: yet I am not ashamed; for I know him whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that he is able to guard that which I have committed unto him against that day.
Hold the pattern of sound words which thou hast heard from me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
That good thing which was committed unto \thee\ guard through the Holy Spirit which dwelleth in us.
This thou knowest, that all that are in Asia turned away from me; of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
The Lord grant mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus: for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain;
but, when he was in Rome, he sought me diligently, and found me
(the Lord grant unto him to find mercy of the Lord in that day); and in how many things he ministered at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.
