I say then, Hath God cast away his people? By no means. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
I say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall? By no means: but rather through their fall salvation is come to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy.
Now if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fullness?
For I speak to you Gentiles, inasmuch as I am the apostle of the Gentiles, I magnify my office:
If by any means I may incite to emulation them who are my flesh, and may save some of them.
For if the rejection of them be the reconciling of the world, what shall the receiving of them be, but life from the dead?
For if the first fruit is holy, the lump is also holy: and if the root is holy, so are the branches.
And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou, being a wild olive-tree, art ingrafted among them, and with them partakest of the root and fatness of the olive-tree;
Boast not against the branches. But if thou boastest, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee.
Thou wilt say then, The branches were broken off, that I might be ingrafted.
Well; because of unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not high-minded, but fear:
For if God spared not the natural branches, take heed lest he also spare not thee.
Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God: on them who fell, severity; but towards thee, goodness, if thou shalt continue in his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.
And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be ingrafted: for God is able to ingraft them again.
For if thou wast cut out of the olive-tree which is wild by nature, and wast ingrafted contrary to nature into a good olive-tree; how much more shall these, which are the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive-tree?
For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, (lest ye should be wise in your own conceits) that blindness in part hath happened to Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles shall be come in.
And so all Israel shall be saved: as it is written, There shall come out of Sion the Deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob:
For this is my covenant to them, when I shall take away their sins.
As concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sakes: but as concerning the election, they are beloved for the father's sakes.
For the gifts and calling of God are without repentance.
For as ye in times past have not believed God, yet have now obtained mercy through their unbelief;
Even so have these also now not believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy.
For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy upon all.
O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out!
For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counselor?
Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed to him again?
For from him, and by him, and to him are all things: to whom be glory for ever. Amen.
