Now the Philistines gathered together all their hosts to Aphek: and the Israelites encamped by the spring which is in Jezreel.
The lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by thousands; and David and his men passed on in the rearward with Achish.
Then said the princes of the Philistines, What \do\ these Hebrews \here\? Achish said to the princes of the Philistines, Isn't this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or \rather\ these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell away \to me\ to this day?
But he princes of the Philistines were angry with him; and the princes of the Philistines said to him, Make the man return, that he may go back to his place where you have appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he become an adversary to us: for with what should this \fellow\ reconcile himself to his lord? should it not be with the heads of these men?
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul has slain his thousands, David his ten thousands?
Then Achish called David, and said to him, As Yahweh lives, you have been upright, and your going out and your coming in with me in the host is good in my sight; for I have not found evil in you since the day of your coming to me to this day: nevertheless the lords don't favor you.
Therefore now return, and go in peace, that you not displease the lords of the Philistines.
David said to Achish, But what have I done? and what have you found in your servant so long as I have been before you to this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
Achish answered David, I know that you are good in my sight, as an angel of God: notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Therefore now rise up early in the morning with the servants of your lord who have come with you; and as soon as you are up early in the morning, and have light, depart.
So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. The Philistines went up to Jezreel.
