God said to Jacob, "Arise, go up to Bethel, and live there. Make there an altar to God, who appeared to you when you fled from the face of Esau your brother."
Then Jacob said to his household, and to all who were with him, "Put away the foreign gods that are among you, purify yourselves, change your garments.
Let us arise, and go up to Bethel. I will make there an altar to God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went."
They gave to Jacob all the foreign gods which were in their hands, and the rings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem.
They journeyed: and a terror of God was on the cities that were round about them, and they didn't pursue the sons of Jacob.
So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan (the same is Bethel), he and all the people who were with him.
He built an altar there, and called the place El-beth-el; because there God was revealed to him, when he fled from the face of his brother.
Deborah, Rebekah's nurse, died, and she was buried below Bethel under the oak; and the name of it was called Allon-bacuth.
God appeared to Jacob again, when he came from Paddan-aram, and blessed him.
God said to him, "Your name is Jacob. Your name shall not be Jacob any more, but your name will be Israel." He named him Israel.
God said to him, "I am God Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations will be from you, and kings will come out of your loins.
The land which I gave to Abraham and Isaac, I will give it to you, and to your seed after you will I give the land."
God went up from him in the place where he spoke with him.
Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he spoke with him, a pillar of stone. He poured out a drink-offering on it, and poured oil on it.
Jacob called the name of the place where God spoke with him "Bethel."
They journeyed from Bethel. There was still some distance to come to Ephrath, and Rachel travailed. She had hard labor.
It happened that, when she was in hard labor, that the midwife said to her, "Don't be afraid, for now you will have another son."
It happened, as her soul was departing (for she died), that she named him Ben-oni, but his father named him Benjamin.
Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath (the same is Beth-lehem).
Jacob set up a pillar on her grave. The same is the Pillar of Rachel's grave to this day.
Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Eder.
It happened, while Israel lived in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah, his father's concubine, and Israel heard of it.     Now the sons of Jacob were twelve.
The sons of Leah: Reuben (Jacob's firstborn), Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun.
The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin.
The sons of Bilhah (Rachel's handmaid): Dan and Naphtali.
The sons of Zilpah (Leah's handmaid): Gad and Asher. These are the sons of Jacob, who were born to him in Paddan-aram.
Jacob came to Isaac his father, to Mamre, to Kiriath-arba (the same is Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.
The days of Isaac were one hundred eighty years.
Isaac gave up the spirit, and died, and was gathered to his people, old and full of days. Esau and Jacob, his sons, buried him.
