This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, he made him in God's likeness.
He created them male and female, and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.
Adam lived one hundred thirty years, and became the father of a son in his own likeness, after his image, and named him Seth.
The days of Adam after he became the father of Seth were eight hundred years, and he became the father of sons and daughters.
All the days that Adam lived were nine hundred thirty years, then he died.
Seth lived one hundred five years, and became the father of Enosh.
Seth lived after he became the father of Enosh eight hundred seven years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
All the days of Seth were nine hundred twelve years, then he died.
Enosh lived ninety years, and became the father of Kenan.
Enosh lived after he became the father of Kenan, eight hundred fifteen years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
All the days of Enosh were nine hundred five years, then he died.
Kenan lived seventy years, and became the father of Mahalalel.
Kenan lived after he became the father of Mahalalel eight hundred forty years, and became the father of sons and daughters
and all the days of Kenan were nine hundred ten years, then he died.
Mahalalel lived sixty-five years, and became the father of Jared.
Mahalalel lived after he became the father of Jared eight hundred thirty years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
All the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety-five years, then he died.
Jared lived one hundred sixty-two years, and became the father of Enoch.
Jared lived after he became the father of Enoch eight hundred years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
All the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty-two years, then he died.
Enoch lived sixty-five years, and became the father of Methuselah.
Enoch walked with God after he became the father of Methuselah three hundred years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty-five years.
Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him.
Methuselah lived one hundred eighty-seven years, and became the father of Lamech.
Methuselah lived after he became the father of Lamech seven hundred eighty-two years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
All the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty-nine years, then he died.
Lamech lived one hundred eighty-two years, and became the father of a son,
and he named him Noah, saying, "This same will comfort us in our work and in the toil of our hands, because of the ground which Yahweh has cursed."
Lamech lived after he became the father of Noah five hundred ninety-five years, and became the father of sons and daughters.
All the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy-seven years, then he died.
Noah was five hundred years old, and Noah became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
ing bettered, but rather grew worse,
When she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind, and touched his garment.
For she said, If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.
And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she felt in [her] body that she was healed of that plague.
And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him, turned him about in the press, and said, Who touched my clothes?
And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?
And he looked round about to see her that had done this thing.
But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.
And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace, and be whole of thy plague.
While he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's [house certain] which said, Thy daughter is dead: why troublest thou the Master any further?
As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Be not afraid, only believe.
And he suffered no man to follow him, save Peter, and James, and John the brother of James.
And he cometh to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and seeth the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly.
And when he was come in, he saith unto them, Why make ye this ado, and weep? the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.
And they laughed him to scorn. But when he had put them all out, he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and them that were with him, and entereth in where the damsel was lying.
And he took the damsel by the hand, and said unto her, Talitha cumi; which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise.
And straightway the damsel arose, and walked; for she was [of the age] of twelve years. And they were astonished with a great astonishment.
And he charged them straitly that no man should know it; and commanded that something should be given her to eat.
