Shiggaion of David, which he sang unto the LORD, concerning the words of Cush the Benjamite. 
O LORD my God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me:
Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending \it\ in pieces, while \there is\ none to deliver.
O LORD my God, if I have done this; if there be iniquity in my hands;
If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea, I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:)
Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take \it\; yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah.
Arise, O LORD, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage of mine enemies: and awake for me \to\ the judgment \that\ thou hast commanded.
So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for their sakes therefore return thou on high.
The LORD shall judge the people: judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness, and according to mine integrity \that is\ in me.
Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish the just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins.
My defence \is\ of God, which saveth the upright in heart.
God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry \with the wicked\ every day.
If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent his bow, and made it ready.
He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; he ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors.
Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood.
He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditch \which\ he made.
His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own pate.
I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will sing praise to the name of the LORD most high.
lder of a house for my name, and I will make the seat of his authority certain for ever.
I will be to him a father and he will be to me a son: if he does wrong, I will give him punishment with the rod of men and with the blows of the children of men;
But my mercy will not be taken away from him, as I took it from him who was before you.
And your family and your kingdom will keep their place before me for ever: the seat of your authority will never be overturned.
So Nathan gave David an account of all these words and this vision.
Then David the king went in and took his seat before the Lord, and said, Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my family, that you have been my guide till now?
And this was only a small thing to you, O Lord God; but your words have even been about the far-off future of your servant's family, O Lord God!
What more may David say to you? for you have knowledge of your servant, O Lord God.
Because of your word and from your heart, you have done all this great work, and let your servant see it.
Truly you are great, O Lord God: there is no one like you and no other God but you, as is clear from everything which has come to our ears.
And what other nation in the earth, like your people Israel, did a god go out to take for himself, to be his people, and to make a name for himself, and to do great and strange things for them, driving out a nation and its gods from before his people?
But you took and made strong for yourself your people Israel, to be your people for ever; and you, Lord, became their God.
And now, O Lord God, may the word which you have said about your servant and about his family, be made certain for ever, and may you do as you have said!
And let your name be made great for ever, and let men say, The Lord of armies is God over Israel: and let the family of David your servant be made strong before you!
For you, O Lord of armies, the God of Israel, have clearly said to your servant, I will make you the head of a family of kings: and so it has come into your servant's heart to make this prayer to you.
And now, O Lord God, you are God and your words are true and you have said you will give your servant this good thing;
So may it be your pleasure to give your blessing to the family of your servant, so that it may go on for ever before you: (for you, O Lord God, have said it,) and may your blessing be on your servant's family line for ever!
