Now Benjamin beget Bale his firstborn, Asbel the second, Ahara the third,
Nohaa the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
And the sons of Bale were Addar, and Gera, and Abiud,
And Abisue, and Naamar, and Ahoe,
And Gera, and Sephuphan, and Huram.
These are the sons of Ahod, heads of families that dwelt in Gabaa, who were removed into Mrtnahsth.
And Naaman, and Achia, and Gera he removed them, and beget Oza, and Ahiud.
And Saharim begot in the land of Moab, after he sent away Husim and Bara his wives.
And he beget of Hodes his wife Jobab, and Sebia, and Mesa, and Molchom,
And Jehus and Sechia, and Marma. These were his sons heads of their families.
And Mehusim beget Abitob, and Elphaal.
And the sons of Elphaal were Heber, and Misaam, and Samad: who built One, and Led, and its daughters.
And Baria, and Sama were heads of their kindreds that dwelt in Aialon: these drove away the inhabitants of Geth.
And Ahio, and Sesac, and Jerimoth,
And Zabadia, and Arod, and Heder,
And Michael, and Jespha, and Joha, the sons of Baria.
17And Zabadia, and Mosollam, and Hezeci, and Heber,
And Jesamari, and Jezlia, and Jobab, sons of Elphaal,
And Jacim, and Zechri, and Zabdi,
And Elioenai, and Selethai, and Elial,
And Adaia, and Baraia, and Samareth, the sons of Semei.
And Jespham, and Heber, and Eliel,
And Abdon, and Zechri, and Hanan,
And Hanania, and Elam, and Anathothia.
And Jephdaia, and Phanuel the sons of Sesac.
And Samsari, and Sohoria and Otholia,
And Jersia, and Elia, and Zechri, the sons of Jeroham.
These were the chief fathers, and heads of their families who dwelt in Jerusalem.
And at Gabaon dwelt Abigabaon, and the name of his wife was Maacha:
And his firstborn son Abdon, and Sur, and Cia, and Baal, and Nadab,
And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher, and Macelloth:
And Macelloth beget Samaa: and they dwelt over against their brethren in Jerusalem with their brethren.
And Ner beget Cia, and Cia beget Saul. And Saul begot Jonathan and Melchisua, and Abinadab, and Esbaal.
And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal: and Meribbaal begot Micha.
And the sons of Micha were Phithon, and Melech, and Tharaa, and Ahaz.
And Ahaz beget Joada: and Joada beget Alamath, and Azmoth, and Zamri: and Zamri beget Mesa,
And Mesa beget Banaa, whose son was Rapha, of whom was born Elasa, who beget Asel.
And Asel had six sons whose names were Ezricam, Bochru, Ismahel, Saria, Obdia, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Asel.
And the sons of Esec, his brother, were Ulam the firstborn, and Jehus the second, and Eliphelet the third.
And the sons of Ulam were most valiant men, and archers of great strength: and they had many sons and grandsons, even to a hundred and fifty. All these were children of Benjamin.
