Now in those days comes John the baptist, preaching in the  wilderness of Judaea,
and saying, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn  nigh.
For this is he who has been spoken of through Esaias the  prophet, saying, Voice of him that crieth in the wilderness:  prepare ye the way of \the\ Lord, make straight his paths.
And John himself had his garment of camel`s hair, and a  leathern girdle about his loins, and his nourishment was  locusts and wild honey.
Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all Judaea, and all the  country round the Jordan,
and were baptised by him in the Jordan, confessing their  sins.
But seeing many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his  baptism, he said to them, Offspring of vipers, who has  forewarned you to flee from the coming wrath?
Produce therefore fruit worthy of repentance.
And do not think to say within yourselves, We have Abraham  for \our\ father; for I say unto you, that God is able of these  stones to raise up children to Abraham.
And already the axe is applied to the root of the trees;  every tree therefore not producing good fruit is cut down and  cast into the fire.
*I* indeed baptise you with water to repentance, but he  that comes after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not  fit to bear; *he* shall baptise you with \the\ Holy Spirit and  fire;
whose winnowing fan \is\ in his hand, and he shall  thoroughly purge his threshing-floor, and shall gather his  wheat into the garner, but the chaff he will burn with fire  unquenchable.
Then comes Jesus from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be  baptised of him;
but John urgently forbad him, saying, *I* have need to be  baptised of thee; and comest *thou* to me?
But Jesus answering said to him, Suffer \it\ now; for thus  it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffers  him.
And Jesus, having been baptised, went up straightway from  the water, and lo, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw  the Spirit of God descending as a dove, and coming upon him:
and behold, a voice out of the heavens saying, This is my  beloved Son, in whom I have found my delight.
