About that time Herod the Tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus,
and he said to his courtiers, "This is John the Baptist: he has come back to life--and that is why these miraculous Powers are working in him."
For Herod had arrested John, and had put him in chains, and imprisoned him, for the sake of Herodias his brother Philip's wife,
because John had persistently said to him, "It is not lawful for you to have her."
And he would have liked to put him to death, but was afraid of the people, because they regarded John as a Prophet.
But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before all the company, and so pleased Herod
that with an oath he promised to give her whatever she asked.
So she, instigated by her mother, said, "Give me here on a dish the head of John the Baptist."
The king was deeply vexed, yet because of his repeated oath and of the guests at his table he ordered it to be given her,
and he sent and beheaded John in the prison.
The head was brought on a dish and given to the young girl, and she took it to her mother.
Then John's disciples went and removed the body and buried  it, and came and informed Jesus.
Upon receiving these tidings, Jesus went away by boat to an uninhabited and secluded district; but the people heard of it and followed Him in crowds from the towns by land.
So Jesus  went out and saw an immense multitude, and felt compassion for them, and cured those of them who were out of health.
But when  evening was come, the disciples came to Him and said, "This is an uninhabited place, and the best of the day is now gone; send the people away to go into the villages and buy something to eat."
"They need not go away," replied Jesus; "you yourselves must give them something to eat."
"We have nothing here," they said, "but five loaves and a couple of fish."
"Bring them here to me," He said,
and He told all the people to sit down on the grass. Then He took the five loaves and the two fish, and after looking up to heaven and blessing them, He broke up the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples distributed them to the people.
So all ate, and were fully satisfied. The  broken portions that remained over they gathered up, filling twelve baskets.
Those who had eaten were about 5,000 adult men, without reckoning women and children.
Immediately afterwards He made the disciples go on board the boat and cross to the opposite shore, leaving Him to dismiss the people.
When He had done this, He climbed the hill to pray in solitude.  Night came on, and he was there alone.
Meanwhile the boat was  far out on the Lake, buffeted and tossed by the waves, the wind being adverse.
But  towards daybreak He went to them, walking over the waves.
When the disciples saw Him walking on the waves, they were greatly alarmed. "It is a spirit," they exclaimed, and they cried out with terror.
But instantly Jesus spoke to them, and said, "There is no danger;  it is I; do not be afraid."
"Master," answered Peter, "if it is you, bid me come to you upon the water."
"Come," said Jesus. Then Peter climbed down from the boat and walked upon the water  to go to Him.
But when he  felt  the wind he  grew frightened, and beginning to sink he cried out, "Master, save me."
Instantly Jesus stretched out His hand and caught hold of him, saying to him, "O little faith, why did you doubt?"
So they climbed into the boat, and the wind lulled;
and the men on board fell down before him and said, "You are indeed God's Son."
When they had quite crossed over, they put ashore at Gennesaret;
and the men of the place, recognizing Him, sent word into all the country round. So they brought all the sick to Him,
and they entreated Him that they might but touch the tassel of His outer garment; and all who did so were restored to perfect health.
