Seeing the multitude of people, Jesus went up  the Hill. There He  seated Himself, and when His disciples came to Him,
He proceeded to teach them, and said:
"Blessed are the  poor in spirit, for to them belongs the Kingdom of the Heavens.
"Blessed are the mourners, for they shall be comforted.
"Blessed are  the meek, for they as heirs shall obtain possession of the earth.
"Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be completely satisfied.
"Blessed are the compassionate, for they shall receive compassion.
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.
"Blessed are the peacemakers, for  it is they who will be recognized as sons of God.
"Blessed are those who have borne persecution in the cause of Righteousness, for to them belongs the Kingdom of the Heavens.
"Blessed are you when they have insulted and persecuted you, and have said every cruel thing about you falsely for my sake.
Be joyful and triumphant, because your reward is great in the Heavens; for so were the Prophets before you persecuted.
"*You* are the salt of the earth; but if salt has become  tasteless, in what way can it regain its saltness? It is no longer good for anything but to be thrown away and trodden on by the passers by.
*You* are the light of the world; a town cannot be hid if built on a hill-top.
Nor is a lamp lighted to be put under a bushel, but on the lampstand; and then it gives light to all in the house.
Just so let your light shine before all men, in order that they may see  your holy lives and may give glory to your Father who is in Heaven.
"Do not for a moment suppose that I have come to abrogate  the Law or the Prophets: I have not come to abrogate them but to give them their completion.
Solemnly I tell you that until  Heaven and earth pass away, not one iota or smallest detail will pass away from the Law until all has taken place.
Whoever therefore  breaks one of these least commandments and teaches  others to break them, will be called the least in the Kingdom of the Heavens; but whoever practises them and teaches them, he will be acknowledged as great in the Kingdom of the Heavens.
For I assure you that unless  your righteousness  greatly surpasses that of the Scribes and the Pharisees, you will certainly not find entrance into the Kingdom of the Heavens.
"You have heard that it was said to the ancients, `Thou shalt not commit murder', and whoever commits murder will be answerable to  the magistrate.
But I say to you that every one who becomes  angry with his brother shall be answerable to the magistrate; that whoever says to his brother  `Raca,' shall be answerable to the  Sanhedrin; and that whoever says, `You  fool!' shall be liable to the  Gehenna of Fire.
If therefore when you are offering your gift upon the altar, you remember that your brother has a grievance against you,
leave your gift there before the altar, and go and make friends with your brother first, and then return and proceed to offer your gift.
Come to terms without delay with your opponent while you are yet with him on the way to the court; for fear he should obtain judgement from the magistrate against you, and the magistrate should give you in custody to the officer and you be thrown into prison.
I solemnly tell you that you will certainly not be released till you have paid the very last farthing.
"You have heard that it was said, `Thou shalt not commit adultery.'
But I tell you that whoever looks at a woman and cherishes lustful thoughts has already in his heart become guilty with regard to her.
If therefore your eye, even the right eye,  is a snare to you, tear it out and away with it; it is better for you that one member should be destroyed rather than that your whole body should be thrown into Gehenna.
And if your right hand  is a snare to you, cut it off and away with it; it is better for you that one member should be destroyed rather than that your whole body should go into Gehenna.
"It was also said, `If any man puts away his wife, let him give her a written notice of divorce.'
But I tell you that every man who puts away his wife except on the ground of  unfaithfulness causes her to commit adultery, and whoever marries  her when so divorced commits adultery.
"Again, you have heard that it was said to the ancients, `Thou shalt not swear falsely, but shalt perform thy vows to the Lord.'
But I tell you not to  swear at all; neither by Heaven, for it is God's throne;
nor by the earth, for it is the footstool under His feet; nor  by Jerusalem, for it is the City of the Great King.
And do not swear by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black.
But  let your language be, `Yes, yes,' or `No, no.' Anything in excess of this comes from the Evil one.
"You have heard that it was said, `Eye for eye, tooth for tooth.'
But I tell you not to resist a wicked man, but if any one  strikes you on the right  cheek, turn the other to him as well.
If any one wishes to go to law with you and to deprive you of your  under garment, let him take your outer one also.
And whoever shall compel you to  convey his goods one mile, go with him two.
To him who asks, give: from him who would borrow, turn not away.
"You have heard that it was said, `Thou shalt love thy neighbour and hate thine enemy.'
But I command you all, love your enemies, and pray for your persecutors;
that so you may become true sons of your Father in Heaven; for He causes His sun to rise on the wicked as well as the good, and sends rain upon those who do right and those who do wrong.
For if you love only those who love you, what reward have you earned? Do not even the tax-gatherers do that?
And if you salute only your near relatives, what praise is due to you? Do not even the Gentiles do the same?
You however are to be complete in goodness, as your Heavenly Father is complete.
