"But beware of doing your  good actions in the sight of men, in order to attract their gaze; if you do, there is no reward for you with your Father who is in Heaven.
`When you give in charity, never blow a  trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and streets in order that their praises may be sung by men. I solemnly tell you that  they already have their reward.
But when you are giving in  charity, let not your left hand perceive what your right hand is doing,
that your charities may be in secret; and then your Father--He who sees in secret--will recompense you.
"And when praying, you must not be like the hypocrites. They are fond of standing and praying in the synagogues or at the corners of the wider streets, in order that men may see them. I solemnly tell you that  they already have their reward.
But you, whenever you pray, go into your own room and shut the door: then pray to your Father who is in secret, and your Father--He who sees in secret--will recompense you.
"And when praying, do not use needless repetitions as the Gentiles do, for they expect to be listened to because of their multitude of words.
Do not,  however, imitate them; for  your Father knows what things you need before ever you ask Him.
"In this manner therefore pray: `Our Father who art in Heaven, may Thy name be kept holy;
let Thy kingdom come; let Thy  will be done, as in Heaven so on earth;
give us to-day our bread  for the day;
and forgive us our shortcomings, as we also have forgiven those who have  failed in their duty towards us;
and bring us not into temptation, but rescue us  from the Evil one.'
"For if you forgive others their offences, your Heavenly Father will forgive you also;
but if you do not forgive others their offences, neither will your Father forgive yours.
"When any of you fast, never assume gloomy looks as the hypocrites do; for they disfigure their faces in order that it may be evident to men that they are fasting. I solemnly tell you that they already have their reward.
But, whenever you fast, pour  perfume on your hair and wash your face,
that it may not be apparent to men that you are fasting, but to your Father who is in secret; and your Father--He who sees in secret--will recompense you.
"Do not lay up stores of wealth for yourselves on earth, where the moth and  wear-and-tear destroy, and where thieves  break in and steal.
But amass wealth for yourselves in Heaven, where neither the moth nor  wear-and-tear destroys, and where thieves do not  break in and steal.
For where your wealth is, there also will your heart be.
"The eye is the lamp of the body. If then your  eyesight is good, your whole body will be well lighted;
but if your  eyesight is bad, your whole body will be dark. If however the very light within you is darkness, how dense must the darkness be!
"No man can be the bondservant of two masters; for either he will dislike one and like the other, or he will attach himself to one and think slightingly of the other. You cannot be the bondservants both of God and of gold.
For this reason I charge you not to be over-anxious about your lives, inquiring what you are to eat or what you are to drink, nor yet about your bodies, inquiring what clothes you are to put on. Is not the life more precious than its food, and the body than its clothing?
Look at the birds which fly in the air: they do not sow or reap or store up in barns, but your Heavenly Father feeds them: are not you of much greater value than they?
Which of you by being over-anxious can add  a single foot to his height?
And why be anxious about clothing? Learn a lesson from the wild  lilies. Watch their growth. They neither  toil nor  spin,
and yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all his magnificence could array himself like one of these.
And if God so clothes the wild herbage which to-day flourishes and to-morrow is thrown into the  oven, is it not much more certain that He will clothe you, you men of little faith?
Do not be  over-anxious, therefore, asking `What shall we eat?' or `What shall we drink?' or `What shall we wear?'
For all these are questions that Gentiles are always asking;  but your Heavenly Father knows that you need these things--all of them.
But make His Kingdom and righteousness your chief aim, and then these things shall all be given you in addition.
Do not be  over-anxious, therefore, about to-morrow, for to-morrow will bring its own cares. Enough for each day are its own troubles.
