Accordingly He went on board, and crossing over came to  His own town.
Here they brought to Him a paralytic lying on a  bed. Seeing their faith Jesus said to the paralytic, "Take courage, my child; your sins are pardoned."
"Such language is impious," said some of the Scribes  among themselves.
Knowing their thoughts Jesus said, "Why are you cherishing evil thoughts in your hearts?
Why, which is easier? --to say, `Your sins are pardoned,' or to say `Rise up and walk'?
But, to prove to you that the Son of Man has authority on earth to pardon sins" --He then says to the paralytic, "Rise, and take up your bed and go home."
And he got up, and went off home.
And the crowds were awe-struck when they saw it, and ascribed the glory to God who had  entrusted such power  to a man.
Passing on thence Jesus saw a man called Matthew  sitting at the Toll Office, and said to him,  "Follow me." And he arose, and followed Him.
And while He was reclining  at table, a large number of  tax-gathers and notorious sinners were of the party with Jesus and His disciples.
The Pharisees noticed this, and they inquired of His disciples, "Why does your Teacher eat with the tax-gatherers and notorious sinners?"
He heard the question and replied, "It is not men in good health who require a doctor, but the sick.
But  go and learn what this means, `It is mercy that I desire, not sacrifice'; for I did not come to appeal to the righteous, but to sinners."
At that time John's disciples came and asked Jesus, "Why do we and the Pharisees  fast, but your disciples do not?"
"Can the bridegroom's party mourn," He replied, "as long as the bridegroom is with them? But other days will come (when the Bridegroom has been taken from them) and then they will fast.
No one ever mends an old cloak with a patch of newly woven cloth. Otherwise, the patch put on would tear away some of the old, and a worse hole would be made.
Nor do people pour new wine into old  wineskins. Otherwise, the skins would split, the wine  would escape, and the skins be destroyed. But they put new wine into fresh skins, and both are saved."
While He was thus speaking, a  Ruler came up and  profoundly bowing said, "My daughter is just dead; but come and put your hand upon her and she will return to life."
And Jesus rose and followed him, as did also His disciples.
But a woman who for twelve years had been afflicted with haemorrhage came behind Him and  touched the  tassel of His cloak;
for she said to herself, "If I but touch His cloak, I shall be cured."
And Jesus turned and saw her, and said, "Take courage, daughter; your faith has  cured you." And the woman was restored to health from that moment.
Entering the Ruler's house, Jesus saw the flute-players and the  crowd loudly wailing,
and He said, "Go out of the room; the little girl is not dead, but asleep." And they laughed at Him.
When however the place was cleared of the crowd, Jesus went in, and on His taking the little girl by the hand, she  rose up.
And the report of this spread throughout all that district.
As Jesus passed on, two blind men followed Him, shouting and saying, "Pity us, Son of David."
And when He had gone indoors, they came to Him. "Do you believe that I can do this?" He asked them. "Yes,  Sir," they replied.
So He touched their eyes and said, "According to your faith let it be to you."
Then their eyes were opened. And assuming a stern tone Jesus said to them, "Be careful to let no one know."
But they went out and published His fame in all that district.
And as they were leaving His presence a  dumb demoniac was brought to Him.
When the demon was expelled, the dumb man could speak. And the crowds exclaimed in astonishment, "Never was such a thing seen in Israel."
But the Pharisees maintained, "It is  by the power of the Prince of the demons that he drives out the demons."
And Jesus continued His circuits through all the towns and the villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the Good News of the Kingdom, and curing every kind of disease and infirmity.
And when He saw the crowds He was touched with pity for them, because they were distressed and were fainting on the ground like sheep which have no shepherd.
Then He said to His disciples, "The harvest is abundant, but the reapers are few;
therefore entreat the Owner of the Harvest to send out reapers into His  fields."
