The burden of the word of Yahweh to Israel by Malachi.
I have loved you, says Yahweh. Yet you say, Wherein have you loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother, says Yahweh: yet I loved Jacob;
but Esau I hated, and made his mountains a desolation, and \gave\ his heritage to the jackals of the wilderness.
Whereas Edom says, We are beaten down, but we will return and build the waste places; thus says Yahweh of Hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down; and men shall call them The border of wickedness, and The people against whom Yahweh has indignation forever.
Your eyes shall see, and you shall say, Yahweh be magnified beyond the border of Israel.
A son honors his father, and a servant his master: if then I am a father, where is my honor? and if I am a master, where is my fear? says Yahweh of Hosts to you, priests, who despise my name. You say, Wherein have we despised your name?
You offer polluted bread on my altar. You say, Wherein have we polluted you? In that you say, The table of Yahweh is contemptible.
When you offer the blind for sacrifice, it is no evil! and when you offer the lame and sick, it is no evil! Present it now to your governor; will he be pleased with you? or will he accept your person? says Yahweh of Hosts.
Now, please entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious to us: this has been by your means: will he accept any of your persons? says Yahweh of Hosts.
Oh that there were one among you who would shut the doors, that you might not kindle \fire on\ my altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, says Yahweh of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand.
For from the rising of the sun even to the going down of the same my name \shall be\ great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense \shall be\ offered to my name, and a pure offering: for my name \shall be\ great among the Gentiles, says Yahweh of Hosts.
But you profane it, in that you say, The table of Yahweh is polluted, and the fruit of it, even its food, is contemptible.
You say also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and you have snuffed at it, says Yahweh of Hosts; and you have brought that which was taken by violence, and the lame, and the sick; thus you bring the offering: should I accept this at your hand? says Yahweh.
But cursed be the deceiver, who has in his flock a male, and vows, and sacrifices to the Lord a blemished thing; for I am a great King, says Yahweh of hosts, and my name is awesome among the Gentiles.
