And he looked up, and saw rich men casting their gifts into the treasury.
And he saw also a certain poor widow, casting in thither two mites.
And he said, Of a truth I say to you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than they all.
For all these have of their abundance cast in to the offerings of God: but she of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had.
And as some spoke of the temple, that it was adorned with goodly stones, and gifts, he said,
As for these things which ye behold, the days will come, in which there shall not be left one stone upon another, that will not be thrown down.
And they asked him, saying, Master, but when will these things be? and what sign will there be when these things shall come to pass?
And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived: for many will come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and the time draweth near: therefore go ye not after them.
But when ye shall hear of wars, and commotions, be not terrified: for these things must first come to pass: but the end is not immediately.
Then said he to them, Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom:
And great earthquakes will be in divers places, and famines, and pestilences: and fearful sights, and great signs will there be from heaven.
But before all these they will lay their hands on you, and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake.
And it shall turn to you for a testimony.
Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye shall answer.
For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist.
And ye will be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, and kinsmen, and friends; and some of you will they cause to be put to death.
And ye will be hated by all men for my name's sake.
But there shall not a hair of your head perish.
In your patience possess ye your souls.
And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that its desolation is nigh.
Then let them who are in Judea flee to the mountains; and let them who are in the midst of it depart from it; and let not them that are in the countries enter into it.
For these are the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.
But woe to them that are with child, and to them that nurse infants in those days! for there shall be great distress in the land, and wrath upon this people.
And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive into all nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden down by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles shall be fulfilled.
And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring;
Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for apprehension of those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be shaken.
And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud, with power and great glory.
And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads: for your redemption draweth nigh.
And he spoke to them a parable; Behold the fig-tree, and all the trees;
When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your ownselves that summer is now nigh at hand.
So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.
Verily I say to you, This generation shall not pass away, till all be fulfilled.
Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my word shall not pass away.
And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares.
For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth.
Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man.
And in the day-time he was teaching in the temple; and at night he went out, and abode in the mount that is called the mount of Olives.
And all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple, to hear him.
n\ weight six hundred;
and David buildeth there an altar to Jehovah, and offereth  burnt-offerings and peace-offerings, and calleth unto Jehovah,  and He answereth him with fire from the heavens on the altar of  the burnt-offering.
And Jehovah saith to the messenger, and he turneth back  his sword unto its sheath.
At that time when David seeth that Jehovah hath answered  him in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he  sacrificeth there;
and the tabernacle of Jehovah that Moses made in the  wilderness, and the altar of the burnt-offering, \are\ at that  time in a high place, in Gibeon;
and David is not able to go before it to seek God, for he  hath been afraid because of the sword of the messenger of  Jehovah.
