Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came to the sepulcher, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them.
And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulcher.
And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed at this, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments.
And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said to them, Why seek ye the living among the dead?
He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spoke to you when he was yet in Galilee,
Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.
And they remembered his words,
And returned from the sepulcher, and told all these things to the eleven, and to all the rest.
It was Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women that were with them, who told these things to the apostles.
And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not.
Then Peter arose, and ran to the sepulcher, and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which had come to pass.
And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about sixty furlongs.
And they talked together of all these things which had happened.
And it came to pass, that, while they communed together, and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.
But their eyes were held, that they should not know him.
And he said to them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?
And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering, said to him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which have come to pass there in these days?
And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God, and all the people:
And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and crucified him.
But we trusted that it had been he who would have redeemed Israel: and besides all this, to-day is the third day since these things were done.
Yes, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, who were early at the sepulcher.
And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive.
And certain of them who were with us, went to the sepulcher, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not.
Then he said to them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken!
Ought not Christ to suffer these things, and to enter into his glory?
And beginning at Moses, and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.
And they drew nigh to the village whither they were going: and he made as though he would go further.
But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is towards evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them.
And it came to pass, as he sat at table with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and broke, and gave to them.
And their eyes were opened, and they knew him: and he vanished out of their sight.
And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures?
And they rose the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven assembled, and them that were with them,
Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon.
And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known to them in breaking of bread.
And as they were thus speaking, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith to them, Peace be to you.
But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit.
And he said to them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts?
Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.
And when he had thus spoken, he showed them his hands and his feet.
And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said to them, Have ye here any thing for food?
And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and a honey-comb.
And he took it, and ate before them.
And he said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me.
Then he opened their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures,
And said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day:
And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.
And ye are witnesses of these things.
And behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye are endued with power from on high.
And he led them out as far as to Bethany: and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them.
And it came to pass, while he was blessing them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven.
And they worshiped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy:
And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.
