And Jesus being full of the Holy Spirit, returned from Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness,
Being forty days tempted by the devil. And in those days he ate nothing; and when they were ended, he was afterward hungry.
And the devil said to him, If thou art the Son of God, command this stone that it be made bread.
And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written, That man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.
And the devil taking him up upon a high mountain, showed to him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.
And the devil said to him, All this power will I give thee, and the glory of them: for that is delivered to me, and to whomsoever I will, I give it.
If thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine.
And Jesus answered and said to him, Get thee behind me, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.
And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If thou art the son of God, cast thyself down from hence.
For it is written, He will give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee:
And in their hands they will bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.
And Jesus answering, said to him, It is said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a season.
And Jesus returned in the power of the spirit into Galilee: and there went out a fame of him through all the surrounding region.
And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.
And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath, and stood up to read.
And there was delivered to him the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written,
The spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the broken-hearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised,
To preach the acceptable year of the Lord.
And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him.
And he began to say to them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears.
And all bore him testimony, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son?
And he said to them, Ye will surely say to me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself: whatever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in thy country.
And he said, Verily I say to you, No prophet is accepted in his own country.
But I tell you in truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heaven was shut three years and six months when great famine was throughout all the land:
But to none of them was Elijah sent, save to Sarepta, a city of Sidon, to a woman that was a widow.
And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet; and none of them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian.
And all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath,
And rose up, and thrust him out of the city, and led him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong.
But he passing through the midst of them, went away,
And came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on the sabbath-days.
And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his word was with power.
And in the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon; and he cried out with a loud voice,
Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. And when the demon had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him, and hurt him not.
And they were all amazed, and spoke among themselves, saying, What a word is this! for with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out.
And the fame of him went out into every place of the surrounding country.
And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into Simon's house. And the mother of Simon's wife was taken with a violent fever; and they besought him for her.
And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left her: and immediately she arose and ministered to them.
Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with divers diseases, brought them to him: and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them.
And demons also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God. And he rebuking them, suffered them not to speak: for they knew that he was Christ.
And when it was day, he departed, and went into a desert place; and the people sought him, and came to him, and stayed him, that he should not depart from them.
And he said to them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also, for therefore am I sent.
And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.
