I commend to you Phoebe, our sister, who is a servant of the assembly that is at Cenchreae,
that you receive her in the Lord, in a way worthy of the saints, and that you assist her in whatever matter she may need from you, for she herself also has been a helper of many, and of my own self.
Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,
who for my life, laid down their own necks; to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the assemblies of the Gentiles.
Greet the assembly that is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the first-fruits of Achaia to Christ.
Greet Mary, who labored much for us.
Greet Andronicus and Junias, my relatives and my fellow prisoners, who are notable among the apostles, who also have been in Christ before me.
Greet Amplias, my beloved in the Lord.
Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved.
Greet Apelles, the approved in Christ. Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus.
Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet them of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord.
Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet Persis, the beloved, who labored much in the Lord.
Greet Rufus, the chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them.
Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them.
Greet one another with a holy kiss. The assemblies of Christ greet you.
Now I beg you, brothers, mark those who are causing the divisions and occasions of stumbling, contrary to the doctrine which you learned, and turn away from them.
For those who are such don't serve our Lord, Jesus Christ, but their own belly; and by their smooth and flattering speech, they deceive the hearts of the innocent.
For your obedience has reached all. I rejoice therefore over you. But I desire to have you wise to that which is good, but innocent to that which is evil.
Now the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet swiftly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, as do Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives.
I, Tertius, who write the letter, greet you in the Lord.
Gaius, my host and host of the whole assembly, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, as does Quartus, the brother.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all! Amen.
Young's Literal Translation	And to Him who is able to establish you, according to my  good news, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the  revelation of the secret, in the times of the ages having been  kept silent,
Young's Literal Translation	and now having been made manifest, also, through prophetic  writings, according to a command of the age-during God, having  been made known to all the nations for obedience of faith --
Young's Literal Translation	to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, to him \be\  glory to the ages. Amen.
