Israel is a luxuriant vine, that puts forth his fruit: according to the abundance of his fruit he has multiplied his altars; according to the goodness of their land they have made goodly pillars.
Their heart is divided; now shall they be found guilty: he will strike their altars, he will destroy their pillars.
Surely now shall they say, We have no king; for we don't fear Yahweh; and the king, what can he do for us?
They speak \vain\ words, swearing falsely in making covenants: therefore judgment springs up as hemlock in the furrows of the field.
The inhabitants of Samaria shall be in terror for the calves of Beth-aven; for the people of it shall mourn over it, and the priests of it who rejoiced over it, for the glory of it, because it is departed from it.
It also shall be carried to Assyria for a present to king Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel.
\As for\ Samaria, her king is cut off, as foam on the water.
The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars; and they shall tell the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall on us.
Israel, you have sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they stood; the battle against the children of iniquity does not overtake them in Gibeah.
When it is my desire, I will chastise them; and the peoples shall be gathered against them, when they are bound to their two transgressions.
Ephraim is a heifer that is taught, that loves to tread out \the grain\; but I have passed over on her beautiful neck: I will set a rider on Ephraim; Judah shall plow, Jacob shall break his clods.
Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to kindness; break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek Yahweh, until he come and rain righteousness on you.
You have plowed wickedness, you have reaped iniquity; you have eaten the fruit of lies; for you did trust in your way, in the multitude of your mighty men.
Therefore shall a tumult arise among your people, and all your fortresses shall be destroyed, as Shalman destroyed Beth-arbel in the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces with her children.
So shall Bethel do to you because of your great wickedness: at daybreak shall the king of Israel be utterly cut off.
