Hear the word of Yahweh, you children of Israel; for Yahweh has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor goodness, nor knowledge of God in the land.
There is nothing but swearing and breaking faith, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery; they break out, and blood touches blood.
Therefore shall the land mourn, and everyone who dwells therein shall languish, with the animals of the field and the birds of the sky; yes, the fish of the sea also shall be taken away.
Yet let no man strive, neither let any man reprove; for your people are as those who strive with the priest.
You shall stumble in the day, and the prophet also shall stumble with you in the night; and I will destroy your mother.
My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because you have rejected knowledge, I will also reject you, that you shall be no priest to me: seeing you have forgotten the law of your God, I also will forget your children.
As they were multiplied, so they sinned against me: I will change their glory into shame.
They feed on the sin of my people, and set their heart on their iniquity.
It shall be, like people, like priest; and I will punish them for their ways, and will requite them their doings.
They shall eat, and not have enough; they shall play the prostitute, and shall not increase; because they have left off taking heed to Yahweh.
Prostitution and wine and new wine take away the understanding.
My people ask counsel at their stock, and their staff declares to them; for the spirit of prostitution has caused them to err, and they have played the prostitute, \departing\ from under their God.
They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains, and burn incense on the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths, because the shadow of it is good: therefore your daughters play the prostitute, and your brides commit adultery.
I will not punish your daughters when they play the prostitute, nor your brides when they commit adultery; for \the men\ themselves go apart with prostitutes, and they sacrifice with the prostitutes; and the people that does not understand shall be overthrown.
Though you, Israel, play the prostitute, yet don't let Judah offend; and don't you come to Gilgal, neither go up to Beth-aven, nor swear, As Yahweh lives.
For Israel has behaved himself stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer: now will Yahweh feed them as a lamb in a large place.
Ephraim is joined to idols; let him alone.
Their drink is become sour; they play the prostitute continually; her rulers dearly love shame.
The wind has wrapped her up in its wings; and they shall be put to shame because of their sacrifices.
