At that time, saith Jehovah, will I be the God of all the  families of Israel, and they shall be my people.
Thus saith Jehovah: The people \that were\ left of the  sword have found grace in the wilderness, \even\ Israel, when I  go to give him rest.
Jehovah hath appeared from afar unto me, \saying,\ Yea, I  have loved thee with an everlasting love; therefore with  loving-kindness have I drawn thee.
I will build thee again, and thou shalt be built, O virgin  of Israel! Thou shalt again be adorned with thy tambours, and  shalt go forth in the dances of them that make merry.
Thou shalt again plant vineyards upon the mountains of  Samaria; the planters shall plant, and shall eat the fruit.
For there shall be a day, when the watchmen upon mount  Ephraim shall cry, Arise, and let us go up to Zion, unto  Jehovah our God.
For thus saith Jehovah: Sing aloud \with\ gladness for  Jacob, and shout at the head of the nations; publish ye, praise  ye, and say, Jehovah, save thy people, the remnant of Israel.
Behold, I bring them from the north country, and gather  them from the uttermost parts of the earth; \and\ among them  the blind and the lame, the woman with child and her that  travaileth with child together: a great assemblage shall they  return hither.
They shall come with weeping, and with supplications will I  lead them; I will cause them to walk by water-brooks, in a  straight way, wherein they shall not stumble; for I will be a  father to Israel, and Ephraim is my firstborn.
Hear the word of Jehovah, ye nations, and declare \it\ to  the isles afar off, and say, He that scattered Israel will  gather him, and keep him, as a shepherd his flock.
For Jehovah hath ransomed Jacob, and redeemed him from the  hand of one stronger than he.
And they shall come and sing aloud upon the height of  Zion, and shall flow together to the goodness of Jehovah, for  corn, and for new wine, and for oil, and for the young of the  flock and of the herd; and their soul shall be as a watered  garden, and they shall not languish any more at all.
Then shall the virgin rejoice in the dance, and the young  men and old together; for I will turn their mourning into  gladness, and will comfort them, and make them rejoice after  their sorrow.
And I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness,  and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness, saith  Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah: A voice hath been heard in Ramah, the  wail of very bitter weeping, -- Rachel weeping for her  children, refusing to be comforted for her children, because  they are not.
Thus saith Jehovah: Refrain thy voice from weeping, and  thine eyes from tears; for there is a reward for thy work,  saith Jehovah; and they shall come again from the land of the  enemy.
And there is hope for thy latter end, saith Jehovah, and  thy children shall come again to their own border.
I have indeed heard Ephraim bemoaning himself \thus\: Thou  hast chastised me, and I was chastised as a bullock not  trained: turn thou me, and I shall be turned; for thou art  Jehovah my God.
Surely after that I was turned, I repented; and after I  knew myself, I smote upon \my\ thigh. I was ashamed, yea, even  confounded, for I bear the reproach of my youth.
Is Ephraim a dear son unto me? is he a child of delights?  For whilst I have been speaking against him, I do constantly  remember him still. Therefore my bowels are troubled for him: I  will certainly have mercy upon him, saith Jehovah.
Set up waymarks, make for thyself signposts; set thy heart  toward the highway, the way by which thou wentest: turn again,  O virgin of Israel, turn again to these thy cities.
How long wilt thou wander about, thou backsliding  daughter? For Jehovah hath created a new thing on the earth, a  woman shall encompass a man.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: They shall  again use this speech, in the land of Judah and in the cities  thereof, when I shall turn their captivity: Jehovah bless thee,  O habitation of righteousness, mountain of holiness!
And therein shall dwell Judah, and all the cities thereof  together, the husbandmen, and they that go about with flocks.
For I have satiated the weary soul, and every languishing  soul have I replenished.
-- Upon this I awaked, and beheld; and my sleep was sweet  unto me.
Behold, days come, saith Jehovah, that I will sow the  house of Israel and the house of Judah \with\ the seed of man  and the seed of beast.
And it shall come to pass, as I have watched over them, to  pluck up, and to break down, and to overthrow, and to destroy,  and to afflict; so will I watch over them to build, and to  plant, saith Jehovah.
In those days they shall say no more, The fathers have  eaten sour grapes, and the children`s teeth are set on edge:
for every one shall die for his own iniquity; every man  that eateth the sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on edge.
Behold, days come, saith Jehovah, that I will make a new  covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah:
not according to the covenant that I made with their  fathers, in the day of my taking them by the hand, to lead them  out of the land of Egypt; which my covenant they broke,  although I was a husband unto them, saith Jehovah.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house  of Israel, after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my law  in their inward parts, and will write it in their heart; and I  will be their God, and they shall be my people.
And they shall teach no more every man his neighbour, and  every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for they shall all  know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them,  saith Jehovah: for I will pardon their iniquity, and their sin  will I remember no more.
Thus saith Jehovah, who giveth the sun for light by day,  the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for light by night,  who stirreth up the sea so that the waves thereof roar, --  Jehovah of hosts is his name:
If those ordinances depart from before me, saith Jehovah,  the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nation before  me for ever.
Thus saith Jehovah: If the heavens above can be measured,  and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath, I will  also cast off the whole seed of Israel, for all that they have  done, saith Jehovah.
Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that the city shall  be built to Jehovah, from the tower of Hananeel unto the  corner-gate.
And the measuring line shall yet go forth before it unto  the hill Gareb, and shall turn toward Goath.
And the whole valley of the dead bodies, and of the ashes,  and all the fields unto the torrent Kidron, unto the corner of  the horse-gate toward the east, shall be holy unto Jehovah: it  shall not be plucked up, nor overthrown any more for ever.
