And the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah the second time,  while he was still shut up in the court of the prison, saying,
Thus saith Jehovah the doer of it, Jehovah that formeth it  to establish it, Jehovah is his name:
Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and I will shew thee  great and hidden things, which thou knowest not.
For thus saith Jehovah the God of Israel concerning the  houses of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of  Judah, which are thrown down because of the mounds and because  of the sword:
They come to fight with the Chaldeans, but to fill them  with the dead bodies of the men whom I have slain in mine anger  and in my fury, and for all whose wickedness I have hid my face  from this city.
Behold, I will apply a healing dressing to it and cure, and  I will heal them, and will reveal unto them an abundance of  peace and truth.
And I will turn the captivity of Judah and the captivity of  Israel, and will build them, as at the beginning.
And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity, whereby  they have sinned against me, and I will pardon all their  iniquities, whereby they have sinned against me, and whereby  they have transgressed against me.
And it shall be to me a name of joy, a praise and a glory  before all the nations of the earth, which shall hear of all  the good that I do unto them; and they shall fear and tremble  for all the good and for all the prosperity that I procure unto  it.
Thus saith Jehovah: In this place of which ye say, It is  waste, without man and without beast! in the cities of Judah  and in the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without man,  and without inhabitant, and without beast,
there shall again be heard the voice of mirth and the  voice of joy, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the  bride, the voice of them that say, Give ye thanks unto Jehovah  of hosts; for Jehovah is good, for his loving-kindness  \endureth\ for ever, -- of them that bring thanksgiving unto  the house of Jehovah. For I will turn the captivity of the land  as in the beginning, saith Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: In this place which is waste,  without man and without beast, and in all the cities thereof,  there shall again be a habitation of shepherds causing \their\  flocks to lie down.
In the cities of the hill-country, in the cities of the  lowland, and in the cities of the south, and in the land of  Benjamin, and in the environs of Jerusalem, and in the cities  of Judah, shall the flocks pass again under the hands of him  that counteth \them\, saith Jehovah.
Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will perform  the good word which I have spoken unto the house of Israel and  unto the house of Judah.
In those days, and at that time, will I cause a Branch of  righteousness to grow up unto David; and he shall execute  judgment and righteousness in the land.
In those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall  dwell in safety. And this is the name wherewith she shall be  called: Jehovah our Righteousness.
For thus saith Jehovah: There shall never fail to David a  man to sit upon the throne of the house of Israel;
neither shall there fail to the priests the Levites a man  before me to offer up burnt-offerings, and to burn oblations,  and to do sacrifice continually.
And the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying,
Thus saith Jehovah: If ye can break my covenant \in  respect\ of the day, and my covenant \in respect\ of the night,  so that there should not be day and night in their season,
\then\ shall also my covenant be broken with David my  servant, that he should not have a son to reign upon his  throne; and with the Levites, the priests, my ministers.
As the host of the heavens cannot be numbered, nor the  sand of the sea measured, so will I multiply the seed of David  my servant, and the Levites that minister unto me.
And the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying,
Hast thou not seen what this people have spoken, saying,  The two families that Jehovah had chosen, he hath even cast  them off? And they despise my people, that they should be no  more a nation before them.
Thus saith Jehovah: If my covenant of day and night  \stand\ not, if I have not appointed the ordinances of the  heavens and the earth,
\then\ will I also cast away the seed of Jacob, and of  David my servant, so as not to take of his seed to be rulers  over the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: for I will turn  their captivity, and will have mercy on them.
