If thou wilt return, O Israel, saith Jehovah, return unto  me; and if thou wilt put away thine abominations out of my  sight, then shalt thou not be a wanderer;
-- and thou shalt in truth, in justice, and in righteousness  swear, \As\ Jehovah liveth! and the nations shall bless  themselves in him, and in him shall they glory.
For thus saith Jehovah to the men of Judah and Jerusalem:  Break up for you a fallow ground, and sow not among thorns.
Circumcise yourselves for Jehovah, and take away the  foreskins of your heart, ye men of Judah and inhabitants of  Jerusalem; lest my fury come forth like fire and burn, and  there be none to quench it, because of the evil of your doings.
Declare ye in Judah, and cause it to be heard in Jerusalem,  and say, ... and blow the trumpet in the land, cry aloud and  say, Assemble yourselves, and let us enter into the fenced  cities.
Set up a banner toward Zion; take to flight, stay not! For I  am bringing evil from the north, and a great destruction.
The lion is come up from his thicket, the destroyer of the  nations is on his way; he is gone forth from his place, to make  thy land desolate; thy cities shall be laid waste, without  inhabitant.
For this, gird you with sackcloth, lament and howl! for the  fierce anger of Jehovah is not turned away from us.
And it shall come to pass in that day, saith Jehovah, that  the heart of the king shall perish, and the heart of the  princes; and the priests shall be astonished, and the prophets  shall be amazed.
And I said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! surely thou hast greatly  deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall have  peace; whereas the sword reacheth unto the soul.
At that time shall it be said to this people and to  Jerusalem, A hot wind \cometh\ from the heights in the  wilderness, on the way of the daughter of my people, not for  fanning, nor for cleansing.
A wind more vehement than that shall come from me: now will  I also pronounce judgments against them.
Behold, he cometh up as clouds, and his chariots are as a  whirlwind; his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe unto us! for  we are destroyed.
Wash thy heart, Jerusalem, from wickedness, that thou  mayest be saved. How long shall thy vain thoughts lodge within  thee?
For a voice declareth from Dan, and publisheth affliction  from mount Ephraim.
Inform the nations; behold, make Jerusalem to hear:  Besiegers come from a far country, and raise their voice  against the cities of Judah.
As keepers of a field are they against her round about; for  she hath been rebellious against me, saith Jehovah.
Thy way and thy doings have procured these \things\ unto  thee; this is thy wickedness, yea, it is bitter, yea, it  reacheth unto thy heart.
My bowels! my bowels! I am in travail! \Oh,\ the walls of  my heart! My heart maketh a noise in me; I cannot hold my  peace: for thou hearest, my soul, the sound of the trumpet, the  clamour of war.
Destruction upon destruction is proclaimed; for the whole  land is wasted: suddenly are my tents laid waste, my curtains,  in a moment.
How long shall I see the standard, \and\ hear the sound of  the trumpet?
For my people is foolish, they have not known me; they are  sottish children, and they have no intelligence; they are wise  to do evil, but to do good they have no knowledge.
I beheld the earth, and lo, it was waste and empty; and the  heavens, and they had no light.
I beheld the mountains, and lo, they trembled, and all the  hills shook violently.
I beheld, and lo, man was not, and all the fowl of the  heavens were fled.
I beheld, and lo, the fruitful land was a wilderness, and  all the cities thereof were broken down, before Jehovah, before  his fierce anger.
For thus saith Jehovah: The whole land shall be a  desolation; but I will not make a full end.
For this shall the earth mourn, and the heavens above be  black; because I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and will  not repent, neither will I turn back therefrom.
At the noise of the horsemen and bowmen, every city fleeth;  they go into the thickets, and climb up upon the rocks: every  city is forsaken and no man dwelleth therein.
-- And thou, wasted one, what wilt thou do? Though thou  clothest thyself with crimson, though thou deckest thee with  ornaments of gold, though thou rendest thine eyes with paint,  in vain dost thou make thyself fair: \thy\ lovers despise thee,  they seek thy life.
For I hear a voice, as of a woman in travail, anguish as of  her that bringeth forth her first child, the voice of the  daughter of Zion: she moaneth, she spreadeth forth her hands,  \saying\, Woe unto me! for my soul faileth because of  murderers.
