The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, after that  Nebuzar-adan the captain of the body-guard had let him go from  Ramah, when he had taken him, being bound in chains, among all  the captivity of Jerusalem and Judah, that were carried away  captive to Babylon.
And the captain of the body-guard took Jeremiah, and said  unto him, Jehovah thy God pronounced this evil upon this place,
and Jehovah hath brought \it about\ and done according as  he said; for ye have sinned against Jehovah, and have not  hearkened unto his voice, therefore this thing is come upon  you.
And now, behold, I loose thee this day from the chains that  are upon thy hand. If it seem good in thy sight to come with me  to Babylon, come, and I will keep mine eye upon thee; but if it  seem ill unto thee to come with me to Babylon, forbear. See,  all the land is before thee: whither it seemeth good and right  in thy sight to go, thither go.
And while he had not yet given answer; \he said,\ Yea, go  back to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan, whom the  king of Babylon hath appointed over the cities of Judah, and  abide with him in the midst of the people; or go wheresoever it  seemeth right in thy sight to go. And the captain of the  body-guard gave him provisions and a present, and let him go.
And Jeremiah came unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to  Mizpah, and abode with him among the people that remained in  the land.
And all the captains of the forces that were in the fields,  they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had  appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam over the land, and had  committed unto him men, and women, and children, and of the  poor of the land, of them that had not been carried away  captive to Babylon.
And they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah; even Ishmael the son  of Nethaniah, and Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, and  Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth, and the sons of Ephai the  Netophathite, and Jezaniah the son of a Maachathite, they and  their men.
And Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan swore  unto them and to their men, saying, Fear not to serve the  Chaldeans: dwell in the land, and serve the king of Babylon,  and it shall be well with you.
And as for me, behold, I dwell at Mizpah, to stand before  the Chaldeans, who will come unto us; and ye, gather wine, and  summer fruits, and oil, and put \them\ in your vessels, and  dwell in your cities which ye have taken.
Likewise all the Jews that were in Moab, and among the  children of Ammon and in Edom, and that were in all the lands,  heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant in Judah, and  that he had appointed over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the  son of Shaphan;
and all the Jews returned out of all the places whither  they had been driven, and came to the land of Judah to  Gedaliah, unto Mizpah, and gathered wine and summer fruits in  great abundance.
And Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the  forces that were in the fields, came to Gedaliah unto Mizpah,
and said unto him, Dost thou indeed know that Baalis the  king of the children of Ammon hath sent Ishmael the son of  Nethaniah to smite thee to death? But Gedaliah the son of  Ahikam believed them not.
And Johanan the son of Kareah spoke to Gedaliah in Mizpah  secretly, saying, Let me go, I pray thee, and I will smite  Ishmael the son of Nethaniah and no man shall know it: why  should he take thy life, and all they of Judah who are gathered  unto thee be scattered, and the remnant of Judah perish?
But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said unto Johanan the son  of Kareah, Thou shalt not do this thing; for thou speakest  falsely of Ishmael.
