The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah the prophet  concerning the nations.
Of Egypt: concerning the army of Pharaoh-Necho king of  Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates at Carchemish, which  Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon smote in the fourth year of  Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, the king of Judah.
Make ready buckler and shield, and draw near to battle!
Harness the horses, and mount ye horsemen, and stand forth  with helmets; polish the spears, put on the coats of mail!
Why do I see them dismayed, turned away back? And their  mighty ones are beaten down, and take to flight, and look not  back? Terror \is\ on every side, saith Jehovah.
Let not the swift flee away, neither let the mighty man  escape! -- Toward the north, hard by the river Euphrates, they  have stumbled and fallen.
Who is this \that\ riseth up as the Nile, whose waters toss  themselves like the rivers?
It is Egypt that riseth up as the Nile, and \his\ waters  toss themselves like the rivers; and he saith, I will rise up,  I will cover the earth; I will destroy the city and the  inhabitants thereof.
Go up, ye horses, and drive furiously, ye chariots; and let  the mighty men go forth: Cush and Phut that handle the shield,  and the Ludim that handle the bow \and\ bend it.
For this is the day of the Lord Jehovah of hosts, a day of  vengeance, that he may be avenged of his adversaries; and the  sword shall devour, and it shall be sated and made drunk with  their blood; for the Lord Jehovah of hosts hath a sacrifice in  the north country, by the river Euphrates.
Go up to Gilead, and fetch balm, O virgin-daughter of  Egypt! In vain shalt thou multiply remedies: there is no  healing for thee.
The nations have heard of thy shame, and thy cry hath  filled the earth; for the mighty man stumbleth against the  mighty, they are both fallen together.
The word that Jehovah spoke to Jeremiah the prophet,  concerning the coming of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon to  smite the land of Egypt:
Declare in Egypt, and publish in Migdol, and publish in  Noph, and in Tahpanhes; say, Stand fast, and prepare thee; for  the sword devoureth round about thee.
Why are thy valiants swept away? They stood not, for  Jehovah did thrust them down.
He made many to stumble, yea, one fell upon another; and  they said, Arise, and let us return to our own people and to  the land of our nativity, from the oppressing sword.
There did they cry, Pharaoh king of Egypt is but a noise;  he hath let the time appointed go by.
\As\ I live, saith the King, whose name is Jehovah of  hosts, surely as Tabor among the mountains, and as Carmel by  the sea, so shall he come.
Thou, inhabitress, daughter of Egypt, furnish for thyself  a captive`s baggage, for Noph shall be a desolation and shall  be ruined, so that none shall dwell therein.
Egypt is a very fair heifer; the gad-fly cometh, it cometh  from the north.
Also her hired men in the midst of her are like fatted  bullocks; for they also have turned back, they have fled away  together, they did not stand; for the day of their calamity is  come upon them, the time of their visitation.
Her voice shall go like a serpent`s; for they shall march  with an army, and come against her with axes, as hewers of  wood.
They shall cut down her forest, saith Jehovah, though it  be impenetrable; for they are more than the locusts, and are  innumerable.
The daughter of Egypt is put to shame; she is delivered  into the hand of the people of the north.
Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, saith, Behold, I will  punish Amon of No, and Pharaoh, and Egypt, and her gods, and  her kings; yea, Pharaoh and them that confide in him.
And I will give them into the hand of those that seek  their life, and into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of  Babylon, and into the hand of his servants; but afterwards it  shall be inhabited, as in the days of old, saith Jehovah.
But thou, my servant Jacob, fear not, neither be dismayed,  Israel: for behold, I will save thee from afar, and thy seed  from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and  be in rest and at ease, and none shall make \him\ afraid.
Fear thou not, my servant Jacob, saith Jehovah: for I am  with thee; for I will make a full end of all the nations  whither I have driven thee, but I will not make a full end of  thee; but I will correct thee with judgment, and I will not  hold thee altogether guiltless.
