Run ye to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see  now, and know, and seek in the broadways thereof, if ye can  find a man, if there be \any\ that doeth justice, that seeketh  fidelity; and I will pardon it.
And if they say, \As\ Jehovah liveth! surely they swear  falsely.
Jehovah, are not thine eyes upon fidelity? Thou hast smitten  them, but they are not sore; thou hast consumed them, they have  refused to receive correction: they have made their faces  harder than a rock; they have refused to return.
And I said, Surely these are the wretched ones, they are  foolish; for they know not the way of Jehovah, the judgment of  their God.
I will go unto the great men, and will speak unto them; for  they know the way of Jehovah, the judgment of their God; but  these have altogether broken the yoke, have burst the bonds.
Therefore a lion out of the forest shall slay them, a wolf  of the evenings shall waste them; the leopard lurketh against  their cities, every one that goeth out thence is torn in  pieces: for their transgressions are multiplied, their  backslidings are increased.
Wherefore should I pardon thee? Thy children have forsaken  me, and swear by them that are not God. I have satiated them,  and they have committed adultery, and they troop to the  harlots` house.
\As\ well fed horses, they roam about, every one neigheth  after his neighbour`s wife.
Shall I not visit for these things? saith Jehovah, and shall  not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
Go up upon her walls, and destroy; but make not a full end;  take away her battlements, for they are not Jehovah`s.
For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt  very treacherously against me, saith Jehovah.
They have denied Jehovah, and say, He is not; and evil  shall not come upon us, nor shall we see sword nor famine;
and the prophets shall become wind, and the word is not in  them: thus shall it be done unto them.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of hosts: Because ye  speak this word, behold, I will make my words in thy mouth  fire, and this people wood, and it shall devour them.
Behold, I bring a nation upon you from afar, house of  Israel, saith Jehovah: it is a mighty nation, it is an ancient  nation, a nation whose language thou knowest not, neither  understandest thou what they say.
Their quiver is as an open sepulchre; they are all mighty  men.
And they shall eat up thy harvest and thy bread, they shall  eat up thy sons and thy daughters, they shall eat up thy flocks  and thy herds, they shall eat up thy vines and thy fig-trees;  they shall destroy with the sword thy strong cities, wherein  thou trustedst.
Nevertheless in those days, saith Jehovah, I will not make  a full end with you.
And it shall come to pass, when ye shall say, Wherefore  hath Jehovah our God done all these things unto us? then shalt  thou say to them, As ye have forsaken me, and served strange  gods in your land, so shall ye serve strangers in a land that  is not yours.
Declare this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in  Judah, saying,
Hear now this, O foolish and heartless people, who have  eyes and see not; who have ears, and hear not.
Will ye not fear me? saith Jehovah. Will ye not tremble at  my presence, who have set the sand a bound for the sea by a  perpetual decree, and it shall not pass it? and its waves toss  themselves, but they do not prevail; and they roar, yet can  they not pass over it?
But this people hath a stubborn and a rebellious heart;  they have turned aside and are gone.
And they say not in their heart, Let us now fear Jehovah  our God, that giveth rain, both the early and the latter, in  its season; who preserveth unto us the appointed weeks of  harvest.
Your iniquities have turned away these things, and your  sins have withholden from you what is good.
For among my people are found wicked \men\: they lay wait,  as fowlers stoop down; they set a trap, they catch men.
As a cage full of birds, so are their houses full of  deceit: therefore they are become great, and have enriched  themselves.
They are become fat, they shine, yea, they surpass in deeds  of wickedness; they judge not the cause, the cause of the  fatherless, and they prosper; and the right of the needy do  they not adjudge.
Shall I not visit for these things? saith Jehovah; shall  not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
An appalling and horrible thing is committed in the land:
the prophets prophesy falsehood, and the priests rule by  their means; and my people love \to have it\ so. But what will  ye do in the end thereof?
