The word that Jehovah spoke concerning Babylon, concerning  the land of the Chaldeans, through Jeremiah the prophet.
Declare ye among the nations, and publish, and lift up a  banner; publish, conceal not! Say, Babylon is taken, Bel is put  to shame, Merodach is dismayed: her images are put to shame,  her idols are dismayed.
For out of the north there cometh up a nation against her,  which shall make her land desolate, and none shall dwell  therein: both man and beast are fled; they are gone.
In those days, and at that time, saith Jehovah, the  children of Israel shall come, they and the children of Judah  together, going and weeping as they go, and shall seek Jehovah  their God.
They shall inquire concerning Zion, with their faces  thitherward, \saying,\ Come, and let us join ourselves to  Jehovah, in an everlasting covenant that shall not be  forgotten.
My people are lost sheep; their shepherds have caused them  to go astray, they turned them away on the mountains: they went  from mountain to hill, they forgot their resting-place.
All that found them devoured them, and their adversaries  said, We are not guilty, because they have sinned against  Jehovah, the habitation of righteousness, even Jehovah, the  hope of their fathers.
Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and go forth out of the  land of the Chaldeans, and be as the he-goats before the flock.
For behold, I will raise and cause to come up against  Babylon, an assemblage of great nations from the north country;  and they shall set themselves in array against her: from thence  shall she be taken. Their arrows shall be as those of a mighty  expert man: none shall return empty.
And Chaldea shall be a spoil: all the spoilers thereof  shall be satiated, saith Jehovah.
For ye rejoiced, for ye triumphed, ye plunderers of my  heritage; for ye have been wanton as the heifer at grass, and  neighed as steeds.
Your mother hath been sorely put to shame; she that bore  you hath been covered with reproach: behold, \she is become\  hindmost of the nations, a wilderness, a dry land, and a  desert.
Because of the wrath of Jehovah, it shall not be  inhabited, but it shall be wholly desolate; every one that  goeth by Babylon shall be astonished, and shall hiss, because  of all her plagues.
Put yourselves in array against Babylon round about, all  ye that bend the bow; shoot at her, spare no arrows: for she  hath sinned against Jehovah.
Shout against her round about: she hath given her hand;  her ramparts are fallen, her walls are thrown down: for this is  the vengeance of Jehovah. Take vengeance upon her; as she hath  done, do unto her.
Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him that handleth the  sickle in the time of harvest. For fear of the oppressing sword  let them turn every one to his people, and let them flee every  one to his own land.
Israel is a hunted sheep; the lions have driven him away:  first the king of Assyria devoured him, and last this  Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath broken his bones.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel:  Behold, I will visit the king of Babylon and his land, like as  I have visited the king of Assyria.
And I will bring Israel again to his pasture, and he shall  feed on Carmel and Bashan, and his soul shall be satisfied upon  mount Ephraim and in Gilead.
In those days, and at that time, saith Jehovah, the  iniquity of Israel shall be sought for, and there shall be  none; and the sins of Judah, and they shall not be found: for I  will pardon those whom I leave remaining.
Go up against the land of double rebellion, against it,  and against the inhabitants of visitation; waste and utterly  destroy after them, saith Jehovah, and do according to all that  I have commanded thee.
A sound of battle is in the land, and great destruction.
How is the hammer of the whole earth cut asunder and  broken! How is Babylon become an astonishment among the  nations!
I have laid a snare for thee, and thou, Babylon, art also  taken, and thou wast not aware; thou art found, and also  caught, for thou hast contended with Jehovah.
Jehovah hath opened his armoury, and hath brought forth  the weapons of his indignation; for this is a work for the  Lord, Jehovah of hosts, in the land of the Chaldeans.
Come ye against her from every quarter, open her  storehouses; pile her up like sheaves, and destroy her utterly:  let nothing of her be left.
Slay all her bullocks; let them go down to the slaughter:  woe unto them! for their day is come, the time of their  visitation.
The voice of them that flee and escape out of the land of  Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of Jehovah our God,  the vengeance of his temple.
Call together the archers against Babylon, all those that  bend the bow: encamp against her round about; let there be no  escaping: recompense her according to her work; according to  all that she hath done, do unto her: for she hath acted proudly  against Jehovah, against the Holy One of Israel.
Therefore shall her young men fall in her streets; and all  her men of war shall be cut off in that day, saith Jehovah.
Behold, I am against thee, proud one, saith the Lord  Jehovah of hosts; for thy day is come, the time that I visit  thee:
and the proud one shall stumble and fall, and none shall  raise him up; yea, I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it  shall devour all that are round about him.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: The children of Israel and  the children of Judah were together oppressed; and all that  took them captives held them fast: they refused to let them go.
Their Redeemer is strong; Jehovah of hosts is his name: he  will thoroughly plead their cause, that he may give rest to the  land, and disquiet the inhabitants of Babylon.
The sword is upon the Chaldeans, saith Jehovah, and upon  the inhabitants of Babylon, and upon her princes, and upon her  wise men;
the sword is upon the liars, and they shall become fools;  the sword is upon her mighty men, and they shall be dismayed;
the sword is upon their horses, and upon their chariots,  and upon all the mingled people that are in the midst of her,  and they shall become as women; the sword is upon her  treasures, and they shall be robbed:
a drought is upon her waters, and they shall be dried up;  for it is a land of graven images, and they are mad after  frightful idols.
Therefore wild beasts of the desert with jackals shall  dwell there, and ostriches shall dwell therein; and it shall be  no more inhabited for ever, neither shall it be dwelt in from  generation to generation.
As when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and their  neighbour cities, saith Jehovah, no one shall dwell there,  neither shall a son of man sojourn therein.
Behold, a people cometh from the north, and a great  nation. And many kings shall arise from the uttermost parts of  the earth.
They lay hold of bow and spear; they are cruel, and will  not shew mercy; their voice roareth like the sea, and they ride  upon horses -- set in array like a man for the battle, against  thee, O daughter of Babylon.
The king of Babylon hath heard the report of them, and his  hands wax feeble; trouble hath taken hold of him, pangs as of a  woman in travail.
Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of  the Jordan against the strong habitation; for I will make him  suddenly run away from it; and who is a chosen \man\ whom I may  appoint over her? For who is like me? and who will assign me a  time? and who is that shepherd that will stand before me?
Therefore hear the counsel of Jehovah, which he hath taken  against Babylon, and his purposes which he hath purposed  against the land of the Chaldeans: The little ones of the flock  shall certainly draw them away; he shall certainly make their  habitation desolate for them.
At the sound of the taking of Babylon the earth hath  quaked, and the cry is heard among the nations.
