Flee for safety, ye children of Benjamin, out of the midst  of Jerusalem, and blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and set up a  signal in Beth-haccerem; for evil appeareth out of the north,  and a great destruction.
The comely and delicate one do I cut off, the daughter of  Zion.
Shepherds with their flocks shall come unto her; they shall  pitch \their\ tents against her round about; they shall feed  every one in his place.
Prepare war against her. Arise, and let us go up at noon.  Woe unto us! for the day hath declined, for the shadows of the  evening are lengthening.
Arise, and let us go up by night, and let us destroy her  palaces.
For thus hath Jehovah of hosts said: Hew ye down trees, and  cast a mound against Jerusalem. She is the city to be visited;  she is wholly oppression in the midst of her.
As a well poureth forth her waters, so she poureth forth her  wickedness: violence and destruction are heard in her; before  me continually are grief and wounds.
Be thou instructed, Jerusalem, lest my soul be alienated  from thee; lest I make thee a desolation, a land not inhabited.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: They shall thoroughly glean  like a vine the remnant of Israel: turn back thy hand, as a  grape-gatherer unto the baskets.
To whom shall I speak and testify, that they may hear?  Behold, their ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken:  behold, the word of Jehovah is unto them a reproach; they have  no delight in it.
And I am full of the fury of Jehovah, I am weary with  holding in. Pour it out upon the children in the street, and  upon the assembly of young men together: for even the husband  with the wife shall be taken; the aged with him \that is\ full  of days.
And their houses shall be turned unto others, \their\  fields and wives together; for I will stretch out my hand upon  the inhabitants of the land, saith Jehovah.
For from the least of them even unto the greatest of them,  every one is given to covetousness; and from the prophet even  unto the priest, every one dealeth falsely.
And they have healed the breach of the daughter of my  people lightly, saying, Peace, peace! when there is no peace.
Are they ashamed that they have committed abomination? Nay,  they are not at all ashamed, neither know they what it is to  blush. Therefore they shall fall among them that fall; at the  time that I visit them they shall stumble, saith Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah: Stand in the ways and see, and ask for  the ancient paths, which is the good way, and walk therein, and  ye shall find rest for your souls. But they said, We will not  walk \therein\.
Also I have set watchmen over you: -- Hearken ye to the  sound of the trumpet. But they said, We will not hearken.
Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O assembly, what is  among them.
Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil upon this people,  the fruit of their thoughts; for they have not hearkened unto  my words, and as to my law, they have rejected it.
To what purpose should there come to me incense from Sheba,  and the sweet cane from a far country? Your burnt-offerings are  not acceptable, nor are your sacrifices pleasing unto me.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah: Behold, I will lay  stumbling-blocks before this people, and the fathers and the  sons together shall fall over them; the neighbour and his  friend shall perish.
Thus saith Jehovah: Behold, a people cometh from the north  country, and a great nation is stirred up from the uttermost  parts of the earth.
They lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no  mercy; their voice roareth like the sea; and they ride upon  horses, set in array as a man for the battle, against thee,  daughter of Zion.
We have heard the report thereof: our hands are grown  feeble; anguish hath taken hold of us, pain as of a woman that  travaileth.
Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for  \there is\ the sword of the enemy, terror is on every side.
Daughter of my people, gird thee with sackcloth, and roll  thyself in ashes: make mourning, \as\ for an only son -- bitter  lamentation; for the spoiler cometh suddenly upon us.
I have set thee among my people as an assayer, a fortress,  that thou mayest know and try their way.
They are all the most rebellious of rebels, going about  with slander: they are bronze and iron; they are all  corrupters.
The bellows are burned, the lead is consumed by the fire;  they have melted, and melted in vain; and the bad are not  plucked away.
Reprobate silver shall they call them, for Jehovah hath  rejected them.
