The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
Stand in the gate of Jehovah`s house, and proclaim there  this word, and say, Hear ye the word of Jehovah, all Judah,  that enter in at these gates to worship Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Amend your  ways and your doings, and I will cause you to dwell in this  place.
Confide ye not in words of falsehood, saying, Jehovah`s  temple, Jehovah`s temple, Jehovah`s temple is this.
But if ye thoroughly amend your ways and your doings, if ye  really do justice between a man and his neighbour,
\if\ ye oppress not the stranger, the fatherless, and the  widow, and shed no innocent blood in this place, neither walk  after other gods to your hurt;
then will I cause you to dwell in this place, in the land  that I gave to your fathers from of old even for ever.
Behold, ye confide in words of falsehood that cannot profit.
What? steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely,  and burn incense unto Baal, and walk after other gods whom ye  know not ...
then ye come and stand before me, in this house which is  called by my name, and say, We are delivered, -- in order to do  all these abominations!
Is this house, which is called by my name, a den of robbers  in your eyes? Even I, behold, I have seen it, saith Jehovah.
For go now unto my place which was in Shiloh, where I  caused my name to dwell at the first, and see what I did to it,  for the wickedness of my people Israel.
And now, because ye have done all these works, saith  Jehovah, and I spoke unto you, rising up early and speaking,  and ye heard not, and I called you, and ye answered not;
I will even do unto the house which is called by my name,  wherein ye trust, and unto the place which I gave to you and to  your fathers, as I have done to Shiloh;
and I will cast you out of my sight, as I have cast out all  your brethren, all the seed of Ephraim.
And thou, pray not for this people, neither lift up cry nor  prayer for them, and make not intercession to me; for I will  not hear thee.
Seest thou not what they do in the cities of Judah, and in  the streets of Jerusalem?
The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire,  and the women knead dough, to make cakes to the queen of  heaven, and to pour out drink-offerings unto other gods, that  they may provoke me to anger.
Is it I whom they provoke to anger? saith Jehovah; is it  not themselves, to the shame of their own face?
Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, mine anger  and my fury shall be poured out upon this place; upon man, and  upon beast, and upon the trees of the field, and upon the fruit  of the ground; and it shall burn, and shall not be quenched.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Add your  burnt-offerings to your sacrifices, and eat the flesh.
For I spoke not unto your fathers, nor commanded them  concerning burnt-offerings and sacrifices, in the day that I  brought them out of the land of Egypt;
but I commanded them this thing, saying, Hearken unto my  voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people; and  walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well  with you.
But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear, but walked  in the counsels, in the stubbornness of their evil heart, and  went backward and not forward.
Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land  of Egypt, unto this day, have I sent unto you all my servants  the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them;
but they have not hearkened unto me, nor inclined their  ear; and they have hardened their neck: they have done worse  than their fathers.
And thou shalt speak all these words unto them, but they  will not hearken unto thee; and thou shalt call unto them, but  they will not answer thee.
And thou shalt say unto them, This is the nation which hath  not hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah their God, nor received  correction; fidelity is perished, and is cut off from their  mouth.
Cut off thy hair, and cast it away, and take up a  lamentation on the heights; for Jehovah hath rejected and  forsaken the generation of his wrath.
For the children of Judah have done evil in my sight, saith  Jehovah; they have set their abominations in the house which is  called by my name, to defile it.
And they have built the high places of Topheth, which is in  the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their  daughters in the fire; which I commanded not, neither did it  come up into my mind.
Therefore, behold, days are coming, saith Jehovah, when it  shall no more be said, Topheth, and Valley of the son of  Hinnom, but the valley of slaughter; for they shall bury in  Topheth, till there be no place.
And the carcases of this people shall be food for the fowl  of the heavens, and for the beasts of the earth; and none shall  scare \them\ away.
And I will cause to cease from the cities of Judah, and  from the streets of Jerusalem, the voice of mirth and the voice  of joy, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride;  for the land shall become a waste.
