At that time, saith Jehovah, they shall bring forth the  bones of the kings of Judah, and the bones of his princes, and  the bones of the priests, and the bones of the prophets, and  the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, out of their graves;
and they shall spread them out to the sun and to the moon  and to all the host of the heavens, which they have loved, and  which they have served, and after which they have walked, and  which they have sought, and which they have worshipped: they  shall not be gathered, nor be buried; they shall be for dung  upon the face of the ground.
And death shall be chosen rather than life by all the  residue that remain of this evil family, in all the places  whither I have driven those that remain, saith Jehovah of  hosts.
And thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith Jehovah: Do \men\  fall, and not rise up? Doth one turn away, and not return?
Why hath this people of Jerusalem slidden back with a  perpetual backsliding? They hold fast deceit, they refuse to  return.
I hearkened and heard: they speak not what is right; there  is no man who repenteth him of his wickedness, saying, What  have I done? Every one turneth to his course, like a horse  rushing into the battle.
Even a stork in the heavens knoweth her appointed times, and  the turtle-dove and the swallow and the crane observe the time  of their coming; but my people know not the judgment of  Jehovah.
How do ye say, We are wise, and the law of Jehovah is with  us? Behold, certainly the lying pen of the scribes hath made it  falsehood.
The wise men are ashamed, they are dismayed and taken:  behold, they have rejected Jehovah`s word; and what wisdom is  in them?
Therefore will I give their wives unto others, their fields  to those that shall possess \them\; for every one, from the  least even unto the greatest, is given to covetousness; from  the prophet even unto the priest, every one dealeth falsely.
And they have healed the breach of the daughter of my  people lightly, saying, Peace, peace! when there is no peace.
Are they ashamed that they have committed abomination? Nay,  they are not at all ashamed, and they know not how to blush.  Therefore shall they fall among them that fall: in the time of  their visitation they shall stumble, saith Jehovah.
I will utterly take them away, saith Jehovah: there are no  grapes on the vine, nor figs on the fig-tree; and the leaf is  faded: and I will give them up to those that shall pass over  them.
Why do we sit still? Assemble yourselves, and let us enter  into the fenced cities, and let us be silent there: for Jehovah  our God hath put us to silence, and given us water of gall to  drink, because we have sinned against Jehovah.
Peace is looked for, and there is no good; a time of  healing, and behold, terror.
The snorting of his horses is heard from Dan: the whole  land trembleth at the sound of the neighing of his steeds, and  they come, and devour the land, and all it contains, the city  and those that dwell therein.
For behold, I send among you serpents, vipers against which  there is no charm, and they shall bite you, saith Jehovah.
My comfort in my sadness! my heart is faint in me!
Behold the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people,  from a very far country: Is not Jehovah in Zion? Is not her  king in her? Why have they provoked me to anger with their  graven images, with foreign vanities?
The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not  saved.
-- For the breach of the daughter of my people am I  crushed; I go mourning; astonishment hath taken hold of me.
Is there no balm in Gilead? is there no physician there?  Why then is there no dressing applied for the healing of the  daughter of my people?
