Oh that my head were waters, and mine eye a fountain of  tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the  daughter of my people!
Oh that I had in the wilderness a traveller`s lodging-place,  that I might leave my people, and go away from them! For they  are all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men.
And they bend their tongue, their bow of falsehood, and not  for fidelity are they valiant in the land; for they proceed  from evil to evil, and they know not me, saith Jehovah.
Take ye heed every one of his friend, and confide not in any  brother; for every brother only supplanteth, and every friend  goeth about with slander.
And they act deceitfully every one with his neighbour, and  speak not the truth: they teach their tongue to speak  falsehood, they weary themselves with perverse dealing.
Thy habitation is in the midst of deceit; through deceit  they refuse to know me, saith Jehovah.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will melt  them, and try them; for how else could I do for the daughter of  my people?
Their tongue is a murderous arrow; it speaketh deceit. \A  man\ speaketh peaceably to his neighbour with his mouth, but in  his heart he layeth his ambush.
Shall I not visit them for these \things\? saith Jehovah;  shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
For the mountains will I take up weeping and wailing, and  for the pastures of the wilderness, a lamentation; for they are  burnt up, so that none passeth through them; and the voice of  the cattle is not heard. Both the fowl of the heavens and the  beasts are fled; they are gone.
And I will make Jerusalem heaps, a dwelling-place of  jackals; and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation,  without inhabitant.
Who is a wise man, that he may understand this? and he to  whom the mouth of Jehovah hath spoken, that he may declare it?  Why is the land perished, burnt up like a wilderness, so that  none passeth through?
And Jehovah saith, Because they have forsaken my law which  I set before them, and have not hearkened unto my voice, nor  walked in it,
but have walked after the stubbornness of their own heart,  and after the Baals, as their fathers taught them;
therefore thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel,  Behold, I will feed this people with wormwood, and give them  water of gall to drink,
and will scatter them among the nations, whom neither they  nor their fathers have known; and I will send the sword after  them, till I have consumed them.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Consider, and call for the  mourning women, that they may come, and send for the skilful  women, that they may come;
and let them make haste, and take up a wailing for us, that  our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids pour forth  waters.
For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, How are we  spoiled, sorely put to shame! For we have forsaken the land,  for they have cast down our dwellings.
Hear then the word of Jehovah, ye women, and let your ear  receive the word of his mouth, and teach your daughters  wailing, and each one her companion lamentation.
For death is come up through our windows, is entered into  our palaces, to cut off the children from the street, the young  men from the broadways.
Speak, Thus saith Jehovah: Yea, the carcases of men shall  fall as dung upon the open field, and as the handful after the  reaper, and there shall be none to gather.
Thus saith Jehovah: Let not the wise glory in his wisdom,  neither let the mighty glory in his might; let not the rich  glory in his riches:
but let him that glorieth glory in this, that he  understandeth and knoweth me, that I \am\ Jehovah, who exercise  loving-kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth; for  in these things I delight, saith Jehovah.
Behold, days are coming, saith Jehovah, when I will visit  all \them that are\ circumcised with the uncircumcised;
Egypt, and Judah, and Edom, and the children of Ammon, and  Moab, and all that have the corners \of their beard\ cut off,  that dwell in the wilderness: for all the nations are  uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in  heart.
