This is the blessing, with which Moses the man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death.
He said, Yahweh came from Sinai, Rose from Seir to them; He shined forth from Mount Paran, He came from the ten thousands of holy ones: At his right hand was a fiery law for them.
Yes, he loves the people; All his saints are in your hand: They sat down at your feet; \Everyone\ shall receive of your words.
Moses commanded us a law, An inheritance for the assembly of Jacob.
He was king in Jeshurun, When the heads of the people were gathered, All the tribes of Israel together.
Let Reuben live, and not die; Nor let his men be few.
This is \the blessing\ of Judah: and he said, Hear, Yahweh, the voice of Judah, Bring him in to his people. With his hands he contended for himself; You shall be a help against his adversaries.
Of Levi he said, Your Thummim and your Urim are with your godly one, Whom you did prove at Massah, With whom you did strive at the waters of Meribah;
Who said of his father, and of his mother, I have not seen him; Neither did he acknowledge his brothers, Nor knew he his own children: For they have observed your word, Keep your covenant.
They shall teach Jacob your ordinances, Israel your law: They shall put incense before you, Whole burnt offering on your altar.
Bless, Yahweh, his substance, Accept the work of his hands: Smite through the loins of those who rise up against him, Of those who hate him, that they not rise again.
Of Benjamin he said,     The beloved of Yahweh shall dwell in safety by him;     He covers him all the day long,     He dwells between his shoulders.
Of Joseph he said, Blessed of Yahweh be his land, For the precious things of the heavens, for the dew, For the deep that couches beneath,
For the precious things of the fruits of the sun, For the precious things of the growth of the moons,
For the chief things of the ancient mountains, For the precious things of the everlasting hills,
For the precious things of the earth and the fullness of it, The good will of him who lived in the bush. Let \the blessing\ come on the head of Joseph, On the crown of the head of him who was separate from his brothers.
The firstborn of his herd, majesty is his; His horns are the horns of the wild-ox: With them he shall push the peoples all of them, \even\ the ends of the       earth: They are the ten thousands of Ephraim, They are the thousands of Manasseh.
Of Zebulun he said, Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going out; Issachar, in your tents.
They shall call the peoples to the mountain; There shall they offer sacrifices of righteousness: For they shall suck the abundance of the seas, The hidden treasures of the sand.
Of Gad he said, Blessed be he who enlarges Gad: He dwells as a lioness, Tears the arm, yes, the crown of the head.
He provided the first part for himself, For there was the lawgiver's portion reserved; He came \with\ the heads of the people; He executed the righteousness of Yahweh, His ordinances with Israel.
Of Dan he said, Dan is a lion's whelp, That leaps forth from Bashan.
Of Naphtali he said, Naphtali, satisfied with favor, Full with the blessing of Yahweh, Possess you the west and the south.
Of Asher he said, Blessed be Asher with children; Let him be acceptable to his brothers, Let him dip his foot in oil.
Your bars shall be iron and brass; As your days, so shall your strength be.
There is none like God, Jeshurun, Who rides on the heavens for your help, In his excellency on the skies.
The eternal God is \your\ dwelling-place, Underneath are the everlasting arms. He thrust out the enemy from before you, Said, Destroy.
Israel dwells in safety, The fountain of Jacob alone, In a land of grain and new wine; Yes, his heavens drop down dew.
Happy are you, Israel: Who is like you, a people saved by Yahweh, The shield of your help, The sword of your excellency! Your enemies shall submit themselves to you; You shall tread on their high places.
