Therefore we ought to pay greater attention to the things that were heard, lest perhaps we drift away.
For if the word spoken through angels proved steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense;
how will we escape, if we neglect so great a salvation -- which at the first having been spoken through the Lord, was confirmed to us by those who heard;
God also bearing witness with them, both by signs and wonders, and by various works of power, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
For he didn't subject the world to come, whereof we speak, to angels.
But one has somewhere testified, saying, "What is man, that you think of him? Or the son of man, that you care for him?
You made him a little lower than the angels; You crowned him with glory and honor.
You have put all things in subjection under his feet."     For in that he subjected all things to him, he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we don't see all things subjected to him, yet.
But we see him who has been made a little lower than the angels, Jesus, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that by the grace of God he should taste of death for everyone.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
For both he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all from one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
saying, "I will declare your name to my brothers, In the midst of the congregation will I sing your praise."
Again, "I will put my trust in him." Again, "Behold, here am I and the children whom God has given me."
Since then the children have shared in flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner partook of the same, that through death he might bring to nothing him who had the power of death, that is, the devil,
and might deliver all of them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
For most assuredly, not to angels does he give help, but he gives help to the seed of Abraham.
Therefore he was obligated in all things to be made like his brothers, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
For in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.
