The burden of Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the  Elkoshite.
A jealous and avenging ùGod is Jehovah: an avenger is  Jehovah, and full of fury: Jehovah taketh vengeance on his  adversaries, and he reserveth \wrath\ for his enemies.
Jehovah is slow to anger, and great in power, and doth not  at all clear \the guilty\: Jehovah, -- his way is in the  whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his  feet.
He rebuketh the sea, and maketh it dry, and drieth up all  the rivers: Bashan languisheth, and Carmel, and the flower of  Lebanon languisheth.
The mountains quake before him, and the hills melt, and the  earth is upheaved at his presence, and the world, and all that  dwell therein.
Who shall stand before his indignation? and who shall abide  in the fierceness of his anger? His fury is poured out like  fire, and the rocks are broken asunder by him.
Jehovah is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; and he  knoweth them that trust in him.
But with an overrunning flood he will make a full end of the  place thereof, and darkness shall pursue his enemies.
What do ye imagine against Jehovah? He will make a full end:  trouble shall not rise up the second time.
Though they be tangled together \as\ thorns, and be as  drenched from their drink, they shall be devoured as dry  stubble, completely.
Out of thee is gone forth one that imagineth evil against  Jehovah, a wicked counsellor.
Thus saith Jehovah: Though they be complete in number, and  many as they be, even so shall they be cut down, and he shall  pass away; and though I have afflicted thee, I will afflict  thee no more.
And now will I break his yoke from off thee, and will burst  thy bonds asunder.
And Jehovah hath given commandment concerning thee, that no  more of thy name be sown: out of the house of thy god will I  cut off the graven image, and the molten image: I will prepare  thy grave; for thou art vile.
Behold upon the mountains the feet of him that bringeth  glad tidings, that publisheth peace! Celebrate thy feasts,  Judah, perform thy vows: for the wicked one shall no more pass  through thee; he is utterly cut off.
