In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah: we have a strong city; salvation will he appoint for walls and bulwarks.
Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth faith may enter in.
Thou wilt keep \him\ in perfect peace, \whose\ mind \is\ stayed \on thee\; because he trusteth in thee.
Trust ye in Jehovah for ever; for in Jehovah, \even\ Jehovah, is an everlasting rock.
For he hath brought down them that dwell on high, the lofty city: he layeth it low, he layeth it low even to the ground; he bringeth it even to the dust.
The foot shall tread it down; even the feet of the poor, and the steps of the needy.
The way of the just is uprightness: thou that art upright dost direct the path of the just.
Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O Jehovah, have we waited for thee; to thy name, even to thy memorial \name\, is the desire of our soul.
With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me will I seek thee earnestly: for when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.
Let favor be showed to the wicked, yet will he not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness will he deal wrongfully, and will not behold the majesty of Jehovah.
Jehovah, thy hand is lifted up, yet they see not: but they shall see \thy\ zeal for the people, and be put to shame; yea, fire shall devour thine adversaries.
Jehovah, thou wilt ordain peace for us; for thou hast also wrought all our works for us.
O Jehovah our God, other lords besides thee have had dominion over us; but by thee only will we make mention of thy name.
\They are\ dead, they shall not live; \they are\ deceased, they shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all remembrance of them to perish.
Thou hast increased the nation, O Jehovah, thou hast increased the nation; thou art glorified; thou hast enlarged all the borders of the land.
Jehovah, in trouble have they visited thee; they poured out a prayer \when\ thy chastening was upon them.
Like as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain and crieth out in her pangs; so we have been before thee, O Jehovah.
We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.
Thy dead shall live; my dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust; for thy dew is \as\ the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast forth the dead.
Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast.
For, behold, Jehovah cometh forth out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.
