Verily, verily, I say to you, He that entereth not by the door into the sheep-fold, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber.
But he that entereth by the door, is the shepherd of the sheep.
To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out.
And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice.
And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers.
This parable spoke Jesus to them: but they understood not what things they were which he spoke to them.
Then said Jesus to them again, Verily, verily, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers: but the sheep did not hear them.
I am the door: by me if any man shall enter he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture.
The thief cometh not, but to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly.
I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.
But he that is a hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth, and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep.
The hireling fleeth, because he is a hireling, and careth not for the sheep.
I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known by mine.
As the Father knoweth me, even so I know the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.
And other sheep I have which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.
Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it again.
No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received from my Father.
There was a division therefore again among the Jews for these sayings.
And many of them said, He hath a demon, and is insane; why hear ye him?
Others said, These are not the words of him that hath a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?
And it was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication, and it was winter.
And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch.
Then came the Jews around him, and said to him, How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou art the Christ, tell us plainly.
Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believed not: the works that I did in my Father's name, they testify concerning me.
But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep, as I said to you.
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me:
And I give to them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any pluck them out of my hand.
My Father, who gave them to me, is greater than all; and none is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand.
I and my Father are one.
Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him.
Jesus answered them, Many good works have I shown you from my Father; for which of those works do ye stone me?
The Jews answered him, saying, For a good work we stone thee not; but for blasphemy, and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God.
Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods?
If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken;
Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God?
If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not.
But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works: that ye may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I in him.
Therefore they sought again to take him; but he escaped from their hand,
And went again beyond Jordan, into the place where John at first baptized; and there he abode.
And many resorted to him, and said, John performed no miracle; but all things that John spoke of this man were true.
And many believed on him there.
