Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me.
In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.
And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.
Thomas saith to him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?
Jesus saith to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life: no man cometh to the Father, but by me.
If ye had known me, ye would have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him.
Philip saith to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us.
Jesus saith to him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me Philip? he that hath seen me, hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Show us the Father?
Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I speak to you, I speak not from myself: but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works.
Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me for the very works' sake.
Verily, verily, I say to you, he that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go to my Father.
And whatever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.
If ye love me, keep my commandments.
And I will pray the Father, and he will give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever;
Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and will be in you.
I will not leave you comfortless; I will come to you.
Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me: because I live, ye shall live also.
At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you.
He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me, shall be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.
Judas, not Iscariot, saith to him, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself to us, and not to the world?
Jesus answered and said to him, If a man loveth me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our abode with him.
He that loveth me not, keepeth not my sayings: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but that of the Father who sent me.
These things have I spoken to you, being yet present with you.
But the Comforter, who is the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatever I have said to you.
Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you: not as the world giveth, give I to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
Ye have heard that I said to you, I go away, and come again to you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go to the Father: for my Father is greater than I.
And now I have told you before it cometh to pass, that when it hath come to pass, ye may believe.
Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me.
But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence.
