When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Kedron, where was a garden, into which he entered, and his disciples.
And Judas also, who betrayed him, knew the place: for Jesus often resorted thither with his disciples.
Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns, and torches, and weapons.
Jesus therefore, knowing all things that were coming upon him, went forth, and said to them, Whom seek ye?
They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith to them, I am he. And Judas also, who betrayed him, stood with them.
As soon then as he had said to them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground.
Then he asked them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth.
Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he: If therefore ye seek me, let these go away:
That the saying might be fulfilled which he spoke, Of them whom thou gavest to me, I have lost none.
Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it, and smote the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus.
Then said Jesus to Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath: the cup which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink it?
Then the band, and the captain, and officers of the Jews took Jesus, and bound him,
And led him away to Annas first, (for he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was the high priest that same year.)
Now Caiaphas was he who gave counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. That disciple was known to the high priest, and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest.
But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out that other disciple who was known to the high priest, and spoke to her that kept the door, and brought in Peter.
Then saith the damsel that kept the door to Peter, Art not thou also one of this man's disciples? He saith, I am not.
And the servants and officers stood there, who had made a fire of coals; (for it was cold) and they warmed themselves: and Peter stood with them, and warmed himself.
The high priest then asked Jesus concerning his disciples, and concerning his doctrine.
Jesus answered him, I spoke openly to the world; I ever taught in the synagogue and in the temple, whither the Jews always resort; and in secret have I said nothing.
Why dost thou ask me? ask them who heard me, what I have said to them: behold, they know what I have said.
And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers who stood by, struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Answerest thou the high priest so?
Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear testimony of the evil: but if well, why smitest thou me?
(Now Annas had sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.)
And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said therefore to him, Art not thou also one of his disciples? He denied it, and said, I am not.
One of the servants of the high priest (being the kinsman of him whose ear Peter cut off) saith, Did not I see thee in the garden with him?
Peter then denied again, and immediately the cock crowed.
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas to the hall of judgment: and it was early; and they themselves went not into the judgment-hall, lest they should be defiled; but that they might eat the passover.
Pilate then went out to them, and said, What accusation bring ye against this man?
They answered and said to him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up to thee.
Then said Pilate to them, Take ye him, and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said to him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death:
That the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spoke, signifying what death he should die.
Then Pilate entered into the judgment-hall again, and called Jesus, and said to him, Art thou the King of the Jews?
Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing from thyself, or did others tell it thee concerning me?
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thy own nation, and the chief priests, have delivered thee to me: What hast thou done?
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence.
Pilate therefore said to him, Art thou a King then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a King. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should testify to the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.
Pilate saith to him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews, and saith to them, I find in him no fault.
But ye have a custom that I should release to you one at the passover: will ye therefore that I release to you the King of the Jews?
Then they all cried again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.
