And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there.
And both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage.
And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith to him, They have no wine.
Jesus saith to her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? my hour is not yet come.
His mother saith to the servants, Whatever he saith to you, do it.
And there were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece.
Jesus saith to them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them to the brim.
And he saith to them, Draw out now, and bear to the governor of the feast. And they bore it.
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and knew not whence it was; (but the servants who drew the water knew) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom,
And saith to him, Every man at the beginning presenteth good wine; and when men have well drank, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept the good wine until now.
This beginning of miracles Jesus performed in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory; and his disciples believed on him.
After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples; and they continued there not many days.
And the Jews' passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem,
And found in the temple those that sold oxen, and sheep, and doves, and the changers of money, sitting:
And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen; and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables;
And said to them that sold doves, Take these things hence: make not my Father's house a house of merchandise.
And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thy house hath eaten me up.
Then answered the Jews, and said to him, What sign showest thou to us, seeing that thou doest these things?
Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and wilt thou rear it up in three days?
But he spoke of the temple of his body.
When therefore he had risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this to them: and they believed the scripture, and the word which Jesus had spoken.
Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover, in the feast day, many believed in his name, when they saw the miracles which he performed.
But Jesus did not commit himself to them, because he knew all men.
And needed not that any should testify concerning man: for he knew what was in man.
