After these things Jesus showed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias: and in this manner did he show himself.
There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples.
Simon Peter saith to them, I go a fishing. They say to him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and entered into a boat immediately; and that night they caught nothing.
But when the morning had now come, Jesus stood on the shore: but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus.
Then Jesus saith to them, Children, have ye any victuals? They answered him, No.
And he said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.
Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith to Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girt on his fisher's coat, (for he was naked) and cast himself into the sea.
And the other disciples came in a little boat (for they were not far from land, but as it were two hundred cubits) dragging the net with fishes.
As soon then as they had come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid upon them, and bread.
Jesus saith to them, Bring of the fish which ye have now caught.
Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of great fishes, a hundred and fifty and three: and notwithstanding there were so many, yet the net was not broken.
Jesus saith to them, Come and dine. And none of the disciples durst ask him, Who art thou? knowing that it was the Lord.
Jesus then cometh, and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise.
This is now the third time that Jesus showed himself to his disciples, after he had risen from the dead.
So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith to him, Yes, Lord: thou knowest that I love thee. He saith to him, Feed my lambs.
He saith to him again the second time, Simon son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith to him, Yes, Lord: thou knowest that I love thee. He saith to him, Feed my sheep.
He saith to him the third time, Simon son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved, because he said to him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said to him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith to him, Feed my sheep.
Verily, verily, I say to thee, When thou wast young, thou didst gird thyself and walk whither thou wouldest: but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldst not.
This he spoke, signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he saith to him, Follow me.
Then Peter turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved, following; (who also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord, who is he that betrayeth thee?)
Peter seeing him, saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do?
Jesus saith to him, If I will that he shall tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me.
Then this saying went abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not to him, He shall not die; but, if I will that he shall tarry till I come, what is that to thee?
This is the disciple who testifieth of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true.
And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. Amen.
