After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the sea of Tiberias.
And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he performed on them that were diseased.
And Jesus went upon a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples.
And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh.
When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come to him, he saith to Philip, Whence shall we buy bread that these may eat?
(And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what he would do.)
Philip answered him, Two hundred penny-worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them make take a little:
One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith to him,
There is a lad here, who hath five barley-loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so many?
And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. (Now there was much grass in the place.) So the men sat down in number about five thousand.
And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes, as much as they would.
When they were satisfied, he said to his disciples, Gather the fragments that remain, that nothing may be lost.
Therefore they gathered them, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley-loaves, which remained over and above to them that had eaten.
Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus performed, said, This is truly that prophet that should come into the world.
When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force, to make him a king, he departed again to a mountain himself alone.
And when evening had now come, his disciples went down to the sea,
And entered into a boat, and went over the sea towards Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus had not come to them.
And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew.
So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing nigh to the boat: and they were afraid.
But he saith to them, It is I; be not afraid.
Then they willingly received him into the boat: and immediately the boat was at the land whither they were going.
The day following, when the people who stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other boat there, save that one into which his disciples had entered, and that Jesus went not with his disciples into the boat, but that his disciples had gone away alone;
(Yet there came other boats from Tiberias nigh to the place where they ate bread, after the Lord had given thanks:)
When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also took boats, and came to Capernaum, seeking for Jesus.
And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither?
Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say to you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye ate of the loaves, and were satisfied.
Labor not for the food which perisheth, but for that food which endureth to everlasting life, which the Son of man will give to you: for him hath God the Father sealed.
Then said they to him, What shall we do, that we may work the works of God?
Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent.
They said therefore to him, What sign showest thou then, that we may see, and believe thee? what dost thou work?
Our fathers ate manna in the desert; as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat.
Then Jesus said to them, Verily, verily, I say to you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven; but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven.
For the bread of God is he who cometh down from heaven, and giveth life to the world.
Then said they to him, Lord, evermore give us this bread.
And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me, shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me, shall never thirst.
But I said to you, That ye also have seen me, and believe not.
All that the Father giveth me, shall come to me; and him that cometh to me, I will in no wise reject.
For I came down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him that sent me.
And this is the Father's will who hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day.
And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one who seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day.
The Jews then murmured at him, because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven.
And they said, Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? how is it then that he saith, I came down from heaven?
Jesus therefore answered and said to them, Murmur not among yourselves.
No man can come to me, except the Father who hath sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last day.
It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught from God. Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned from the Father, cometh to me.
Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he who is from God, he hath seen the Father.
Verily, verily, I say to you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life.
I am that bread of life.
Your fathers ate manna in the wilderness, and are dead.
This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat of it, and not die.
I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any man shall eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.
The Jews therefore contended among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat?
Then Jesus said to them, Verily, verily, I say to you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you.
Whoever eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.
For my flesh is food indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.
He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him.
As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father: so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me.
This is that bread which came down from heaven: not as your fathers ate manna, and are dead: he that eateth of this bread shall live for ever.
These things he said in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.
Many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard this, said, This is a hard saying; who can hear it?
When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said to them, Doth this offend you?
What if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before?
It is the spirit that reviveth; the flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I speak to you, they are spirit, and they are life.
But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who he was that would betray him.
And he said, Therefore I said to you, that no man can come to me, except it were given to him by my Father.
From that time many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him.
Then said Jesus to the twelve, Will ye also go away?
Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life.
And we believe, and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God.
Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil?
He spoke of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon: for it was he that was to betray him, being one of the twelve.
