And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man who was blind from his birth.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who sinned, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind?
Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him.
I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh when no man can work.
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
When he had thus spoken, he spit on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay,
And said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went therefore, and washed, and came seeing.
The neighbors therefore, and they who before had seen him that he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged?
Some said, This is he: others said, He is like him: but he said, I am he.
Therefore they said to him, How were thy eyes opened?
He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus, made clay, and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash: and I went and washed, and I received sight.
Then said they to him, Where is he? He said, I know not.
They brought to the Pharisees him that before was blind.
And it was the sabbath when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes.
Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said to them, He put clay upon my eyes, and I washed, and do see.
Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not from God, because he keepeth not the sabbath. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them.
They say to the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thy eyes? He said, He is a prophet.
But the Jews did not believe concerning him that he had been blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight.
And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now see?
His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind:
But by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ask him: he will speak for himself.
These words his parents spoke, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man confessed that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him.
Then again they called the man that was blind, and said to him, Give God the praise: we know that this man is a sinner.
He answered and said, Whether he is a sinner, I know not: one thing I know, that whereas I was blind, now I see.
Then they said to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he thy eyes?
He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear: Why would ye hear it again? will ye also be his disciples?
Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we are the disciples of Moses.
We know that God spoke to Moses: as for this man, we know not whence he is.
The man answered and said to them, Why, herein is a marvelous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened my eyes.
Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man is a worshiper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth.
Since the world began hath it not been heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind.
If this man were not from God, he could do nothing.
They answered and said to him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? and they cast him out.
Jesus heard that they had cast him out: and when he had found him, he said to him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God?
He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I may believe on him?
And Jesus said to him, thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee.
And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshiped him.
And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they who see not, may see; and that they who see, may be made blind.
And some of the Pharisees who were with him heard these words, and said to him, Are we blind also?
Jesus said to them, If ye were blind, ye would have no sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth.
