But on the morrow of the sabbath, very early indeed in the  morning, they came to the tomb, bringing the aromatic spices  which they had prepared.
And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre.
And when they had entered they found not the body of the  Lord Jesus.
And it came to pass as they were in perplexity about it,  that behold, two men suddenly stood by them in shining raiment.
And as they were filled with fear and bowed their faces to  the ground, they said to them, Why seek ye the living one among  the dead?
He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spoke to you,  being yet in Galilee,
saying, The Son of man must be delivered up into the hands  of sinners, and be crucified, and rise the third day.
And they remembered his words;
and, returning from the sepulchre, related all these things  to the eleven and to all the rest.
Now it was Mary of Magdala, and Johanna, and Mary the  \mother\ of James, and the others with them, who told these  things to the apostles.
And their words appeared in their eyes as an idle tale,  and they disbelieved them.
But Peter, rising up, ran to the sepulchre, and stooping  down he sees the linen clothes lying there alone, and went away  home, wondering at what had happened.
And behold, two of them were going on the same day to a  village distant sixty stadia from Jerusalem, called Emmaus;
and they conversed with one another about all these things  which had taken place.
And it came to pass as they conversed and reasoned, that  Jesus himself drawing nigh, went with them;
but their eyes were holden so as not to know him.
And he said to them, What discourses are these which pass  between you as ye walk, and are downcast?
And one \of them\, named Cleopas, answering said to him,  Thou sojournest alone in Jerusalem, and dost not know what has  taken place in it in these days?
And he said to them, What things? And they said to him,  The things concerning Jesus the Nazaraean, who was a prophet  mighty in deed and word before God and all the people;
and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up  to \the\ judgment of death and crucified him.
But *we* had hoped that *he* was \the one\ who is about to  redeem Israel. But then, besides all these things, it is now,  to-day, the third day since these things took place.
And withal, certain women from amongst us astonished us,  having been very early at the sepulchre,
and, not having found his body, came, saying that they  also had seen a vision of angels, who say that he is living.
And some of those with us went to the sepulchre, and found  it so, as the women also had said, but him they saw not.
And *he* said to them, O senseless and slow of heart to  believe in all that the prophets have spoken!
Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to  enter into his glory?
And having begun from Moses and from all the prophets, he  interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning  himself.
And they drew near to the village where they were going,  and *he* made as though he would go farther.
And they constrained him, saying, Stay with us, for it is  toward evening and the day is declining. And he entered in to  stay with them.
And it came to pass as he was at table with them, having  taken the bread, he blessed, and having broken it, gave it to  them.
And their eyes were opened, and they recognised him. And  he disappeared from them.
And they said to one another, Was not our heart burning in  us as he spoke to us on the way, \and\ as he opened the  scriptures to us?
And rising up the same hour, they returned to Jerusalem.  And they found the eleven, and those with them, gathered  together,
saying, The Lord is indeed risen and has appeared to  Simon.
And they related what \had happened\ on the way, and how  he was made known to them in the breaking of bread.
And as they were saying these things, he himself stood in  their midst, and says to them, Peace \be\ unto you.
But they, being confounded and being frightened, supposed  they beheld a spirit.
And he said to them, Why are ye troubled? and why are  thoughts rising in your hearts?
behold my hands and my feet, that it is *I* myself. Handle  me and see, for a spirit has not flesh and bones as ye see me  having.
And having said this he shewed them his hands and his  feet.
But while they yet did not believe for joy, and were  wondering, he said to them, Have ye anything here to eat?
And they gave him part of a broiled fish and of a  honeycomb;
and he took it and ate before them.
And he said to them, These \are\ the words which I spoke  to you while I was yet with you, that all that is written  concerning me in the law of Moses and prophets and psalms must  be fulfilled.
Then he opened their understanding to understand the  scriptures,
and said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved  the Christ to suffer, and to rise from among the dead the third  day;
and that repentance and remission of sins should be  preached in his name to all the nations beginning at Jerusalem.
And *ye* are witnesses of these things.
And behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you; but  do ye remain in the city till ye be clothed with power from on  high.
And he led them out as far as Bethany, and having lifted  up his hands, he blessed them.
And it came to pass as he was blessing them, he was  separated from them and was carried up into heaven.
And *they*, having done him homage, returned to Jerusalem  with great joy,
and were continually in the temple praising and blessing  God.
