For this reason I Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles--
if, that is, you have heard of the  work which God has graciously entrusted to me for your benefit,
and that by a revelation the truth hitherto kept secret was made known to me as I have already briefly explained it to you.
By means of that explanation, as you read it, you can judge of my insight into the truth of Christ
which in earlier ages was not made known to the human race, as it has now been revealed to His holy Apostles and Prophets through the Spirit--
I mean the truth that the Gentiles are joint heirs with us Jews, and that they form one body with us, and have the same interest as we have in the promise which has been made good in Christ Jesus through the Good News,
in which I have been appointed to serve, in virtue of the work which God, in the exercise of His power within me, has graciously entrusted to me.
To me who am  less than the least of all God's people has this work been graciously entrusted--to proclaim to the Gentiles the Good News of the  exhaustless wealth of Christ,
and to show  all men in a clear light what my stewardship is. It is the stewardship of the truth which from all the Ages lay concealed in the mind of God, the Creator of all things--
concealed in order that the Church might now be used to display to the powers and authorities in the heavenly realms the innumerable aspects of God's wisdom.
Such was the  eternal purpose which He had formed in Christ Jesus our Lord,
in whom we have this bold and confident access through our faith in Him.
Therefore I entreat you not to lose heart in the midst of my sufferings on your behalf, for they bring you honour.
For this reason, on bended knee I beseech the Father,
from whom  the whole family in Heaven and on earth derives its name,
to grant you--in accordance with the wealth of His glorious perfections--to be strengthened by His Spirit with power penetrating to your inmost being.
I pray that Christ may make His home in your hearts through your faith; so that having your roots deep and your foundations strong, in love, you may become mighty to grasp the idea,
as it is grasped by all God's people, of the breadth and length, the height and depth--
yes, to attain to a knowledge of the knowledge-surpassing love of Christ, so that you may be made complete in accordance with God's own standard of completeness.
Now to Him who, in exercise of His power that is at work within us, is able to do infinitely beyond all our highest prayers or thoughts--
to Him be the glory in the Church and in Christ Jesus to all generations, world without end! Amen.
