Every one who believes that  Jesus is the Christ  is a child of God; and every one who loves the Father loves also Him who is the Father's Child.
The fact that we love God Himself, and obey His commands, is a proof that we love God's children.
Love for God means obedience to His commands; and His commands are not irksome.
For  every child of God overcomes the world; and the victorious principle which has overcome the world is our faith.
Who but the man that believes that Jesus is the Son of God overcomes the world?
Jesus Christ is He who came  with water and blood; not with the water only, but  with the water and with the blood. And it is the Spirit who gives testimony--  because the Spirit is the Truth.
For there are  three that give testimony--  the Spirit, the water, and the blood;
and there is complete agreement between  these three.
If we accept the testimony of men, God's testimony is greater: for God's testimony consists of the things which He has testified about His Son.
He who believes in the Son of God has the testimony in his own heart: he who does not believe God has made Him a liar, in that he has refused to accept the testimony which God has given about His Son.
And that testimony is to the effect that God has given us the Life of the Ages, and that this Life is in His Son.
He who has the Son has the Life: he who has not the Son of God has not the Life.
I write all this to you in order that you who believe in the Son of God may know for certain that you already have the Life of the Ages.
And we have an assured confidence that whenever we ask anything in accordance with His will, He listens to us.
And since we know that He listens to us, then whatever we ask, we know that we have the things which we have asked from Him.
If any one sees a brother man committing a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask and God shall give him life--for those who do not sin unto death. There is such a thing as sin unto death; for that I do not bid him make request.
Any kind of wrongdoing is sin; but there is sin which is not unto death.
We know that no one who is a child of God lives in sin,  but He who is God's Child keeps him, and the Evil one cannot touch him.
We know that we are children of God, and that the whole world lies  in the power of the Evil one.
And we know that the Son of God has come, and has given us understanding so that we know the true One, and are in union with the true One--that is, we are in union with His Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and the Life of the Ages.
Dear children, guard yourselves from idols.
