Two days later there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there,
and Jesus also was invited and His disciples.
Now the wine ran short; whereupon the mother of Jesus said to Him, "They have no wine."
"Leave the matter in my hands," He replied;  "the time for me to act has not yet come."
His mother said to the attendants, "Whatever he tells you to do,  do it."
Now there were six stone jars standing there (in accordance with the Jewish regulations for purification), each large enough to hold twenty gallons or more.
Jesus said to the attendants, "Fill the jars with water." And they filled them to the brim.
Then He said, "Now, take some out, and carry it to the President of the feast."
So they carried some to him. And no sooner had the President tasted the water now turned into wine, than--not knowing where it came from, though the attendants who had drawn the water knew--he called to the bridegroom
and said to him, "It is usual to put on the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then that which is inferior. But you have kept the good wine till now."
This, the first of His  miracles, Jesus performed at Cana in Galilee, and thus displayed His glorious power; and His disciples believed in Him.
Afterwards He went down to Capernaum--He, and His mother, and His brothers, and His disciples; and they made a short stay there.
But the Jewish Passover was approaching, and for this Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And He found in the Temple the dealers in cattle and sheep and in pigeons, and the money-changers sitting there.
So He plaited a whip of  rushes, and drove all--both sheep and bullocks--out of the Temple. The small coin of the brokers He upset on the ground and overturned their tables.
And to the pigeon-dealers He said, "Take these things away. Do not turn my Father's house into a market."
This recalled to His disciples the words of Scripture, "My zeal for Thy House will consume me."
So the Jews  asked Him, "What  proof of your authority do you exhibit to us, seeing that you do these things?"
"Demolish this Sanctuary," said Jesus, "and in three days I will rebuild it."
"It has taken forty-six years," replied the Jews, "to build this Sanctuary, and will you rebuild it in three days?"
But He was speaking of the Sanctuary of His body.
When however He had risen from among the dead, His disciples recollected that He  had said this; and they believed the Scripture and the  teaching which Jesus had given them.
Now when He was in Jerusalem,  at the Festival of the Passover, many  became believers  in Him through watching the miracles He performed.
But for His part, Jesus did not trust Himself to them, because He knew them all,
and did not need any one's testimony concerning  a man, for He of Himself knew what was in the man.
