After this Jesus moved from place to place in Galilee. He would not go about in Judaea, because the Jews were seeking an opportunity to kill Him.
But the Jewish Festival of the Tent-Pitching was approaching.
So His brothers said to Him, "Leave these parts and go into Judaea, that not only we but your disciples also may witness the miracles which you perform.
For no one acts in secret, desiring all the while to be himself known publicly. Since you are doing these things, show yourself openly to the world."
For even His brothers were not believers in Him.
"My time," replied Jesus, "has not yet come, but for you any time is suitable.
It is impossible for the world to hate you; but me it does hate, because I give testimony concerning it that its conduct is evil.
As for you, go up to the Festival.  I do  not now go up to this Festival, because my time is not yet fully come."
Such was His answer, and He remained in Galilee.
When however His brothers had gone up to the Festival, then He also went up, not openly, but as it were privately.
Meanwhile the Jews at the Festival were looking for Him and were inquiring, "Where is he?"
Among the mass of the people there was much muttered debate about Him. Some said, "He is a good man." Others said, "Not so: he is imposing on the people."
Yet  for fear of the Jews no one spoke out boldly about Him.
But when the Festival was already half over, Jesus went up to the Temple and commenced teaching.
The Jews were astonished. "How does  this man know anything of books," they said, "although he has never been at any of the schools?"
Jesus answered their question by saying, "My teaching does not belong to me, but comes from Him who sent me.
If any one is willing to do His will, he shall know about the teaching, whether it is from God or originates with me.
The man whose teaching originates with himself aims at his own glory. He who aims at the glory of Him who sent him teaches the truth, and there is no deception in him.
Did not Moses give you the Law? And yet not a man of you obeys the Law. Why do you want to kill me?"
"You are possessed by a demon," replied the crowd;  "no one wants to kill you."
"One deed I have done," replied Jesus, "and you are all full of wonder.
Consider therefore. Moses  gave you the rite of circumcision (not that it began with Moses, but with your earlier forefathers), and even on a Sabbath day you circumcise a child.
If a child is circumcised even on a Sabbath day, are you bitter against me because I have restored a man to perfect health on a Sabbath day?
Do not form  superficial judgements, but form the judgements that are just."
Some however of the people of Jerusalem said, "Is not this the man they are wanting to kill?
But  here he is, speaking openly and boldly, and they say nothing to him! Can the Rulers really have ascertained that this man is the Christ?
And yet we know this man, and we know where he is from; but as for the Christ, when He comes, no one can tell where He is from."
Jesus therefore, while teaching in the Temple, cried aloud, and said, "Yes, you know me, and you know where I am from. And yet I have not come of my own accord; but there is One who has sent me, an Authority indeed, of whom you have no knowledge.
I know Him, because I came from Him, and He sent me."
On hearing this they wanted to arrest Him; yet not a hand was laid on Him, because His time had not yet come.
But from among the crowd a large number believed in Him. "When the Christ comes," they said, "will He perform more miracles than this teacher has performed?"
The Pharisees heard the people thus expressing their various doubts about Him, and the High Priests and the Pharisees sent some officers to apprehend Him.
So Jesus said, "Still for a short time I am with you, and then I go my way to Him who sent me.
You will look for me and will not find me, and where I am you cannot come."
The Jews therefore said to one another, "Where is he about to betake himself,  so that we shall not find him? Will he betake himself to the Dispersion among the  Gentiles, and teach the  Gentiles?
What do those words of his mean, `You will look for me, but will not find me, and where I am you cannot come'?"
On the last day of the Festival--the great day--Jesus stood up and cried aloud. "Whoever is thirsty," He said, "let him come to me and drink.
He who believes in me, from within him--as the Scripture has said--rivers of living water shall flow."
He referred to the Spirit which those who  believed in Him  were to receive; for the Spirit was not  bestowed as yet, because Jesus had not yet been  glorified.
After listening to these  discourses,  some of the crowd began to say, "This is beyond doubt the Prophet."
Others said, "He is the Christ." But others again,  "Not so, for is the Christ to come from Galilee?
Has not the Scripture declared that the Christ is to come of the family of David and from Bethlehem, David's village?"
So there was a violent dissension among the people on His account.
Some of them wanted at once to arrest Him, but no one laid hands upon Him.
Meanwhile the officers returned to the High Priests and Pharisees, who asked them, "Why have you not brought him?"
"No mere man has ever spoken as this man speaks," said the officers.
"Are *you* deluded too?" replied the Pharisees;
"has any one of the Rulers or of the Pharisees believed in him?
But this rabble who understand nothing about the Law are accursed!"
Nicodemus interposed--he who had formerly gone to Jesus, being himself one of them.
"Does our Law," he asked, "judge a man without first hearing what he has to say and ascertaining what his conduct is?"
"Do you also come from Galilee?" they asked in reply. "Search and see for yourself that no Prophet is of Galilaean origin."
ISo they went away to their several homes;
