but Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
At break of day however He returned to the Temple, and there the people came to Him in crowds. He seated Himself;
and was teaching them when the Scribes and the Pharisees brought to Him a woman who had been found committing adultery. They made her stand in the centre of the court, and they put the case to Him.
"Rabbi," they said, "this woman has been found in the very act of committing adultery.
Now, in the Law, Moses has ordered us to stone  such women to death. But what do you say?"
They asked this in order to put Him to the test, so that they might have some charge to bring against Him. But Jesus  leant forward and began to write with His finger on the ground.
When however they persisted with their question, He raised His head and said to them, "Let the sinless man among you be the first to throw a stone at her."
Then He leant forward again, and again began to write on the ground.
They listened to Him, and then, beginning with the eldest, took their departure, one by one, till all were gone. And Jesus was left behind alone--and the woman in the centre of the court.
Then, raising His head, Jesus said to her,  "Where are they? Has no one condemned you?"
"No one, Sir," she replied. "And *I* do not condemn you either," said Jesus; "go, and from this time do not sin any more."\I
Once more Jesus addressed them. "I am the Light of the world," He said; "the man who follows me shall certainly not walk in the dark, but shall have the light of Life."
"You are giving testimony about yourself," said the Pharisees; "your testimony is not true."
"Even if I am giving testimony about myself," replied Jesus, "my testimony is true; for I know where I came from and where I am going, but you know neither of these two things.
You judge according to  appearances:  I am judging no one.
And even if I do judge, my judgement is  just; for I am not alone, but the Father who sent me is with me.
In your own Law, too, it is written that the testimony of two men is true.
I am one giving testimony about myself, and the Father who sent me gives testimony about me."
"Where is your Father?" they asked. "You know my Father as little as you know me." He replied; "if you knew me, you would know my Father also."
These sayings He uttered in the Treasury, while teaching in the  Temple; yet no one arrested Him, because His time had not yet come.
Again He said to them, "I am going away. Then you will try to find me, but you will die in your sins. Where I am going, it is impossible for you to come."
The Jews began to ask one another, "Is he going to kill himself, do you think, that he says, `Where I am going, it is impossible for you to come'?"
"You," He continued, "are from below, I am from above: you are of this present world, I am not of this present world.
That is why I told you that you will die in your sins; for, unless you believe that  I am He,  that is what will happen."
"You--who are you?" they  asked.  "How is it that I am speaking to you at all?" replied Jesus.
"Many things I have to speak and to judge concerning you. But He who sent me is true, and the things which I have heard from Him are those which  I have come into the world to speak."
They did not perceive that He was speaking to them of the Father.
So Jesus added, "When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that  I am He. Of myself I do nothing; but as the Father has taught me, so I speak.
And He who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone: for I do always what is pleasing to Him."
As He thus spoke, many became believers in Him.
Jesus therefore  said to those of the Jews who had now believed in Him, "As for you, if you  hold fast to my teaching, then you are truly my disciples;
and you shall know the Truth, and the Truth will make you free."
"We are descendants of Abraham," they answered, "and have never at any time been in slavery to any one. What do those words of yours mean, `You shall become free'?"
"In most solemn truth I tell you," replied Jesus, "that every one who commits sin is the slave of sin.
Now a slave does not remain permanently in his master's house, but a son does.
If then the Son shall make you free, you will be free indeed.
You are descendants of Abraham, I know; but you want to kill me, because my teaching gains no ground within you.
The words I speak are those I have  learnt in the presence of the Father. Therefore you also should do what you have heard from your father."
"Our father is Abraham," they said. "If you were Abraham's children," replied Jesus,  "it is Abraham's deeds that you would be doing.
But, in fact, you are longing to kill me, a man who has spoken to you the truth which I have heard from God. Abraham did not do that.
You are doing the deeds of your father." "We," they replied, "are not illegitimate children. We have one Father, namely God."
"If God were your Father," said Jesus, "you would love me; for it is from God that I came and I am now here. I have not come of myself, but *He* sent me.
How is it you do not understand me when I speak? It is because you cannot bear to listen to my words.
The father whose sons you are is the Devil; and you desire to do what gives him pleasure. *He* was a murderer from the beginning, and  does not stand firm  in the truth--for there is no truth in him. Whenever he utters his lie, he utters it  out of his own store; for he is a liar, and the father  of lies.
But because I  speak the truth, you do not believe me.
Which of *you* convicts me of sin? If I speak the truth, why do you not believe me?
He who is a child of God listens to God's words. You do not listen to them: and why? It is because you are not God's children."
"Are we not right," answered the Jews, "in saying that you are a Samaritan and are possessed by a demon?"
"I am not possessed by a demon," replied Jesus. "On the contrary I honour my Father, and you dishonour me.
I, however, am not aiming at glory for myself: there is One who aims at glory for me--and who judges.
In most solemn truth I tell you that if any one shall have obeyed my  teaching he shall in no case ever see death."
"Now," exclaimed the Jews, "we know that you are possessed by a demon. Abraham died, and so did the Prophets, and yet *you* say, `If any one shall have obeyed my teaching, he shall in no case ever  taste death.'
Are you really greater than our forefather Abraham? For he died. And the prophets died.  Who do you make yourself out to be?"
"Were I to glorify myself," answered Jesus, "I should have no real glory. There is One who glorifies me--namely my Father, who you say is your God.
You do not know Him, but I know Him perfectly; and were I to deny my knowledge of Him, I should resemble you, and be a liar. On the contrary I do know Him, and I obey His  commands.
Abraham your forefather exulted  in the hope of seeing  my day: and he saw it, and was glad."
"You are not yet fifty years old," cried the Jews, "and have you seen Abraham?"
"In most solemn truth," answered Jesus, "I tell you that before Abraham came into existence, I am."
Thereupon they took up stones with which to stone Him, but He hid Himself and went away out of the Temple.
