But in the latter days it shall happen that the mountain of       Yahweh's house shall be established on the top of the mountains,       and it shall be exalted above the hills; and peoples shall flow       to it.
Many nations shall go and say, Come you, and let us       go up to the mountain of Yahweh, and to the house of the God of       Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his       paths. For out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of       Yahweh from Jerusalem;
and he will judge between many       peoples, and will decide concerning strong nations afar off: and       they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears       into pruning-hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against       nation, neither shall they learn war any more.
But they       shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig-tree; and       none shall make them afraid: for the mouth of Yahweh of Hosts has       spoken it.
For all the peoples walk everyone in the name of       his god; and we will walk in the name of Yahweh our God forever       and ever.
In that day, says Yahweh, will I assemble that       which is lame, and I will gather that which is driven away, and       that which I have afflicted;
and I will make that which was       lame a remnant, and that which was cast far off a strong nation:       and Yahweh will reign over them on Mount Zion from henceforth       even forever.
You, tower of the flock, the hill of the       daughter of Zion, to you shall it come, yes, the former dominion       shall come, the kingdom of the daughter of Jerusalem.
Now       why do you cry out aloud? Is there no king in you, is your       counselor perished, that pangs have taken hold of you as of a       woman in travail?
Be in pain, and labor to bring forth,       daughter of Zion, like a woman in travail; for now shall you go       forth out of the city, and shall dwell in the field, and shall       come even to Babylon: there shall you be rescued; there will       Yahweh redeem you from the hand of your enemies.
Now many       nations are assembled against you, that say, Let her be defiled,       and let our eye see \our desire\ on Zion.
But they don't       know the thoughts of Yahweh, neither understand they his counsel;       for he has gathered them as the sheaves to the threshing floor.
Arise and thresh, daughter of Zion; for I will make your       horn iron, and I will make your hoofs brass; and you shall beat       in pieces many peoples: and I will devote their gain to Yahweh,       and their substance to the Lord of the whole earth.
