Now shall you gather yourself in troops, daughter of troops: he       has laid siege against us; they shall strike the judge of Israel       with a rod on the cheek.
But you, Beth-lehem Ephrathah,       which are little to be among the thousands of Judah, out of you       shall one come forth to me that is to be ruler in Israel; whose       goings forth are from of old, from everlasting.
Therefore       will he give them up, until the time that she who travails has       brought forth: then the residue of his brothers shall return to       the children of Israel.
He shall stand, and shall feed \his       flock\ in the strength of Yahweh, in the majesty of the name of       Yahweh his God: and they shall abide; for now shall he be great       to the ends of the earth.
This \man\ shall be \our\ peace.       When the Assyrian shall come into our land, and when he shall       tread in our palaces, then shall we raise against him seven       shepherds, and eight principal men.
They shall waste the       land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod in the       entrances of it: and he shall deliver us from the Assyrian, when       he comes into our land, and when he treads within our border.
The remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples       as dew from Yahweh, as showers on the grass, that don't wait for       man, nor wait for the sons of men.
The remnant of Jacob       shall be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, as a       lion among the animals of the forest, as a young lion among the       flocks of sheep; who, if he go through, treads down and tears in       pieces, and there is none to deliver.
Let your hand be       lifted up above your adversaries, and let all your enemies be cut       off.
It shall happen in that day, says Yahweh, that I will       cut off your horses out of the midst of you, and will destroy       your chariots:
and I will cut off the cities of your land,       and will throw down all your strongholds.
I will cut off       witchcraft out of your hand; and you shall have no \more\       soothsayers:
and I will cut off your engraved images and       your pillars out of the midst of you; and you shall no more       worship the work of your hands;
and I will pluck up your       Asherim out of the midst of you; and I will destroy your cities.
I will execute vengeance in anger and wrath on the nations       which didn't listen.
