Hear you now what Yahweh says: Arise, contend you before the       mountains, and let the hills hear your voice.
Hear, you       mountains, Yahweh's controversy, and you enduring foundations of       the earth; for Yahweh has a controversy with his people, and he       will contend with Israel.
My people, what have I done to       you? and in which have I wearied you? testify against me.
For I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you       out of the house of bondage; and I sent before you Moses, Aaron,       and Miriam.
My people, remember now what Balak king of Moab       devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him; \remember\       from Shittim to Gilgal, that you may know the righteous acts of       Yahweh.
How shall I come before Yahweh, and bow myself       before the high God? Shall I come before him with burnt       offerings, with calves a year old?
Will Yahweh be pleased       with thousands of rams, \or\ with ten thousands of rivers of oil?       Shall I give my firstborn for my disobedience, the fruit of my       body for the sin of my soul?
He has showed you, man, what       is good; and what does Yahweh require of you, but to do justly,       and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God?
The       voice of Yahweh cries to the city, and \the man of\ wisdom will       see your name: hear you the rod, and who has appointed it.
Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked,       and a scant measure that is abominable?
Shall I be pure       with wicked balances, and with a bag of deceitful weights?
For the rich men of it are full of violence, and the inhabitants       of it have spoken lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their       mouth.
Therefore I also have struck you with a grievous       wound; I have made you desolate because of your sins.
You       shall eat, but not be satisfied; and your humiliation shall be in       the midst of you: and you shall put away, but shall not save; and       that which you save will I give up to the sword.
You shall       sow, but shall not reap; you shall tread the olives, but shall       not anoint you with oil; and the vintage, but shall not drink the       wine.
For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works       of the house of Ahab, and you walk in their counsels; that I may       make you a desolation, and the inhabitants of it a hissing: and       you shall bear the reproach of my people.
