The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father;    But a foolish son brings grief to his mother.
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing,    But righteousness delivers from death.
Yahweh will not allow the soul of the righteous to go hungry,    But he thrusts away the desire of the wicked.
He becomes poor who works with a lazy hand,    But the hand of the diligent brings wealth.
He who gathers in summer is a wise son,    But he who sleeps during the harvest is a son who causes shame.
Blessings are on the head of the righteous,    But violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
The memory of the righteous is blessed,    But the name of the wicked will rot.
The wise in heart accept commandments,    But a chattering fool will fall.
He who walks blamelessly walks surely,    But he who perverts his ways will be found out.
One winking with the eye causes sorrow,    But a chattering fool will fall.
The mouth of the righteous is a spring of life,    But violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
Hatred stirs up strife,    But love covers all wrongs.
Wisdom is found on the lips of him who has discernment,    But a rod is for the back of him who is void of understanding.
Wise men lay up knowledge,    But the mouth of the foolish is near ruin.
The rich man's wealth is his strong city.    The destruction of the poor is their poverty.
The labor of the righteous leads to life.    The increase of the wicked leads to sin.
He is in the way of life who heeds correction,    But he who forsakes reproof leads others astray.
He who hides hatred has lying lips.    He who utters a slander is a fool.
In the multitude of words there is no lack of disobedience,    But he who restrains his lips does wisely.
The tongue of the righteous is like choice silver.    The heart of the wicked is of little worth.
The lips of the righteous feed many,    But the foolish die for lack of understanding.
The blessing of Yahweh brings wealth,    And he adds no trouble to it.
It is a fool's pleasure to do wickedness,    But wisdom is a man of understanding's pleasure.
What the wicked fear, will overtake them,    But the desire of the righteous will be granted.
When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more;    But the righteous is an everlasting foundation.
As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes,    So is the sluggard to those who send him.
The fear of Yahweh prolongs days,    But the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
The prospect of the righteous is joy,    But the hope of the wicked will perish.
The way of Yahweh is a stronghold to the upright,    But it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.
The righteous will never be removed,    But the wicked will not dwell in the land.
The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom,    But the perverse tongue will be cut off.
The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable,    But the mouth of the wicked is perverse.
