The wicked flee when no one pursues;    But the righteous are as bold as a lion.
In rebellion, a land has many rulers,    But order is maintained by a man of understanding and knowledge.
A needy man who oppresses the poor    Is like a driving rain which leaves no crops.
Those who forsake the law praise the wicked;    But those who keep the law contend with them.
Evil men don't understand justice;    But those who seek Yahweh understand it fully.
Better is the poor who walks in his integrity,    Than he who is perverse in his ways, and he is rich.
Whoever keeps the law is a wise son;    But he who is a companion of gluttons shames his father.
He who increases his wealth by excessive interest    Gathers it for one who has pity on the poor.
He who turns away his ear from hearing the law,    Even his prayer is an abomination.
Whoever causes the upright to go astray in an evil way,    He will fall into his own trap;    But the blameless will inherit good.
The rich man is wise in his own eyes;    But the poor who has understanding sees through him.
When the righteous triumph, there is great glory;    But when the wicked rise, men hide themselves.
He who conceals his sins doesn't prosper,    But whoever confesses and renounces them finds mercy.
Blessed is the man who always fears;    But one who hardens his heart falls into trouble.
As a roaring lion or a charging bear,    So is a wicked ruler over helpless people.
The ruler who lacks judgment is a great tyrant.    One who hates ill-gotten gain will have long days.
A man who is tormented by life blood will be a fugitive until       death;    No one will support him.
Whoever walks blamelessly is kept safe;    But one with perverse ways will fall suddenly.
One who works his land will have an abundance of food;    But one who chases fantasies will have his fill of poverty.
A faithful man is rich with blessings;    But one who is eager to be rich will not go unpunished.
To show partiality is not good;    Yet a man will do wrong for a piece of bread.
A stingy man hurries after riches,    And doesn't know that poverty waits for him.
One who rebukes a man will afterward find more favor    Than one who flatters with the tongue.
Whoever robs his father or his mother, and says, "It's not       wrong."    He is a partner with a destroyer.
One who is greedy stirs up strife;    But one who trusts in Yahweh will prosper.
One who trusts in himself is a fool;    But one who walks in wisdom, he is kept safe.
One who gives to the poor has no lack;    But one who closes his eyes will have many curses.
When the wicked rise, men hide themselves;    But when they perish, the righteous thrive.
