And it came to pass when Jabin king of Hazor heard \this\,  that he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the king of  Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph,
and to the kings that were northward in the mountains, and  in the plain south of Chinneroth, and in the lowland, and on  the upland of Dor on the west,
to the Canaanite on the east and on the west, and to the  Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite  in the mountains, and to the Hivite at the foot of Hermon in  the land of Mizpah.
And they went out, they and all their armies with them, a  people numerous as the sand that is on the seashore in  multitude, with horses and chariots very many.
And all these kings met together, and came and encamped  together at the waters of Merom, to fight against Israel.
And Jehovah said to Joshua, Be not afraid because of them;  for to-morrow about this time will I give them all up slain  before Israel: their horses shalt thou hough, and thou shalt  burn their chariots with fire.
And Joshua, and all the people of war with him, came upon  them by the waters of Merom suddenly, and fell upon them.
And Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Israel, and  they smote them, and chased them unto great Zidon, and to  Misrephoth-maim, and to the valley of Mizpah eastward, and  smote them until none were left remaining to them.
And Joshua did to them as Jehovah had said to him: he  houghed their horses, and burned their chariots with fire.
And Joshua turned back at that time, and took Hazor, and  smote the king thereof with the sword; for Hazor was in times  past the head of all those kingdoms.
And they smote all the souls that were therein with the  edge of the sword, destroying them utterly: there was not any  left to breathe; and he burned Hazor with fire.
And all the cities of those kings and all their kings did  Joshua take; and he smote them with the edge of the sword,  destroying them utterly, as Moses the servant of Jehovah had  commanded.
Only, all the cities that stood still upon their hills  Israel did not burn, save Hazor alone, \which\ Joshua burned.
And all the spoil of these cities and the cattle the  children of Israel took as prey to themselves; only, they smote  all the men with the edge of the sword, until they had  destroyed them: they left none that breathed.
As Jehovah had commanded Moses his servant, so did Moses  command Joshua, and so did Joshua: he let nothing fail of all  that Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And Joshua took all that land, the mountain and all the  south, and all the land of Goshen, and the lowland, and the  plain, and the mountain of Israel, and its lowland;
from the smooth mountain, which rises toward Seir, as far  as Baal-Gad in the valley of Lebanon, at the foot of mount  Hermon; and he took all their kings, and smote them, and put  them to death.
Joshua made war a long time with all those kings.
There was not a city that made peace with the children of  Israel, save the Hivites who dwelt at Gibeon; they took all in  battle.
For it was of Jehovah that their heart was hardened, to  meet Israel in battle, that they might be utterly destroyed,  and that there might be no favour shewn to them, but that they  might be destroyed, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And Joshua came at that time and cut off the Anakim from  the mountains, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all  the mountain of Judah, and from all the mountain of Israel:  Joshua destroyed them utterly, with their cities.
There were none of the Anakim left in the land of the  children of Israel; only at Gazah, at Gath, and at Ashdod there  remained.
And Joshua took the whole land, according to all that  Jehovah had said to Moses; and Joshua gave it for an  inheritance to Israel according to their divisions, by their  tribes. And the land rested from war.
