And the whole assembly of the children of Israel gathered  together at Shiloh, and set up the tent of meeting there; and  the land was subdued before them.
And there remained among the children of Israel seven  tribes whose inheritance had not been distributed to them.
And Joshua said to the children of Israel, How long will ye  shew yourselves slack to go to take possession of the land  which Jehovah the God of your fathers hath given you?
Provide you three men for a tribe; that I may send them,  and they shall rise and go through the land, and describe it  according to the proportion of their inheritance, and they  shall come to me.
And they shall divide it into seven portions. Judah shall  remain in their border on the south, and the house of Joseph  shall remain in their border on the north;
and *ye* shall describe the land into seven portions, and  bring \the description\ hither to me, and I will cast lots for  you here before Jehovah our God.
But the Levites have no portion among you, for the  priesthood of Jehovah is their inheritance. And Gad, and  Reuben, and half the tribe of Manasseh have received their  inheritance beyond the Jordan on the east, which Moses the  servant of Jehovah gave them.
And the men arose and went away. And Joshua charged them  that went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the  land, and describe it, and come again to me, and I will cast  lots for you here before Jehovah in Shiloh.
And the men went and passed through the land, and described  it by cities into seven portions, in a book, and they came to  Joshua, to the camp at Shiloh.
And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before Jehovah.  And there Joshua divided the land to the children of Israel  according to their divisions.
And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came  up according to their families. And the territory of their lot  came forth between the children of Judah and the children of  Joseph.
And their border on the north side was from the Jordan;  and the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north, and  went up to the mountain westward; and ended at the wilderness  of Beth-Aven;
and the border passed on from thence toward Luz, to the  south side of Luz, which is Bethel: and the border went down to  Ataroth-Addar, near the hill that is on the south of the lower  Beth-horon.
-- And the border reached along and turned on the west  side, southward from the hill that is before Beth-horon  southward; and ended at Kirjath-Baal, which is Kirjath-jearim,  a city of the children of Judah: this is the west side.
-- And the south side was from the extreme end of  Kirjath-jearim, and the border went out on the west, and went  out to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah.
And the border went down to the end of the mountain that  is before the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is in the  valley of Rephaim on the north, and went down the valley of  Hinnom, to the side of the Jebusite on the south, and went down  to En-rogel;
and it reached along on the north, and went forth to  En-shemesh, and went forth towards Geliloth, which is opposite  to the ascent of Adummim, and went down to the stone of Bohan,  the son of Reuben,
and passed along towards the side opposite to Arabah  northwards, and went down to Arabah;
and the border passed on to the side of Beth-hoglah on the  north, and the border ended at the tongue of the salt sea  northward, at the south end of the Jordan: this is the southern  border.
-- And the Jordan borders it on the east side. -- This was  the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, according to its  borders round about, according to their families.
And the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin  according to their families were: Jericho, and Beth-hoglah, and  Emek-Keziz,
and Beth-Arabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel,
and Avvim, and Parah, and Ophrah,
and Chephar-haammonai, and Ophni, and Geba: twelve cities  and their hamlets;
Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth,
and Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah,
and Rekem, and Jirpeel, and Tharalah,
and Zelah, Eleph, and Jebusi, that is, Jerusalem, Gibeah,  Kirjath: fourteen cities and their hamlets. This was the  inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their  families.
