Now Jericho was shut up and was barred, because of the  children of Israel: none went out, and none came in.
And Jehovah said to Joshua, See, I have given into thy hand  Jericho, and the king thereof, \and\ the valiant men.
And ye shall go round the city, all the men of war,  encompassing the city once. Thus shalt thou do six days.
And seven priests shall carry before the ark seven  blast-trumpets; and on the seventh day ye shall go round the  city seven times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets.
And it shall come to pass when they make a long blast with  the blast-horn, that all the people on hearing the sound of the  trumpet shall shout with a great shout; and the wall of the  city shall fall flat, and the people shall go up, each one  straight before him.
And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests, and said to  them, Carry the ark of the covenant, and seven priests shall  carry seven blast-trumpets before the ark of Jehovah.
And he said to the people, Pass on, go round the city, and  they that are armed shall pass on before the ark of Jehovah.
And it came to pass when Joshua had spoken to the people,  that the seven priests carrying the seven blast-trumpets before  Jehovah passed on and blew with the trumpets; and the ark of  the covenant of Jehovah went after them.
And the armed men went before the priests who blew with the  trumpets, and the rearguard came after the ark; they blew with  the trumpets in marching.
And Joshua had commanded the people, saying, Ye shall not  shout, nor let your voice be heard, neither shall a word  proceed out of your mouth, until the day I say to you, Shout;  then shall ye shout.
And the ark of Jehovah went round the city, encompassing  \it\ once; and they came into the camp, and lodged in the camp.
And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests  carried the ark of Jehovah.
And the seven priests carrying the seven blast-trumpets  before the ark of Jehovah went on and blew continually with the  trumpets; and the armed men went before them, and the rearguard  went after the ark of Jehovah; they blew with the trumpets in  marching.
And on the second day they went round the city once, and  returned into the camp. So they did six days.
And it was so that on the seventh day they rose early,  about the morning-dawn, and went round the city after the same  manner seven times; only on that day they went round the city  seven times.
And it came to pass the seventh time, when the priests blew  with the trumpets, that Joshua said to the people, Shout; for  Jehovah has given you the city.
And the city shall be accursed, it and all that is in it,  to Jehovah; only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all that  are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that  we sent.
But in any wise keep from the accursed thing, lest ye make  \yourselves\ accursed in taking of the accursed thing, and make  the camp of Israel a curse, and trouble it.
And all the silver, and gold, and vessels of copper and  iron, shall be holy to Jehovah; they shall come into the  treasury of Jehovah.
And the people shouted, and they blew with the trumpets.  And it came to pass when the people heard the sound of the  trumpets, and the people shouted with a great shout, that the  wall fell down flat; and the people went up into the city, each  one straight before him, and they took the city.
And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city; both  man and woman, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with  the edge of the sword.
And Joshua said to the two men that had spied out the  country, Go into the harlot`s house and bring out thence the  woman, and all that she has, as ye swore unto her.
And the young men, the spies, went in and brought out  Rahab, and her father, and her mother, and her brethren, and  all that she had: all her kindred did they bring out, and they  left them outside the camp of Israel.
And they burned the city with fire, and all that was  therein; only the silver, and the gold, and the vessels of  copper and of iron, they put into the treasury of the house of  Jehovah.
And Joshua saved alive Rahab the harlot, and her father`s  household, and all that she had, and she dwelt in the midst of  Israel to this day; because she hid the messengers whom Joshua  had sent to spy out Jericho.
And Joshua swore at that time, saying, Cursed be the man  before Jehovah who shall rise up and build this city Jericho!  In his first-born shall he lay its foundation, and in his  youngest son shall he set up its gates.
And Jehovah was with Joshua; and his fame was in all the  land.
