I composed the first discourse, O Theophilus, concerning all  things which Jesus began both to do and to teach,
until that day in which, having by the Holy Spirit charged  the apostles whom he had chosen, he was taken up;
to whom also he presented himself living, after he had  suffered, with many proofs; being seen by them during forty  days, and speaking of the things which concern the kingdom of  God;
and, being assembled with \them\, commanded them not to  depart from Jerusalem, but to await the promise of the Father,  which \said he\ ye have heard of me.
For John indeed baptised with water, but *ye* shall be  baptised with the Holy Spirit after now not many days.
They therefore, being come together, asked him saying, Lord,  is it at this time that thou restorest the kingdom to Israel?
And he said to them, It is not yours to know times or  seasons, which the Father has placed in his own authority;
but ye will receive power, the Holy Spirit having come upon  you, and ye shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all  Judaea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.
And having said these things he was taken up, they beholding  \him\, and a cloud received him out of their sight.
And as they were gazing into heaven, as he was going,  behold, also two men stood by them in white clothing,
who also said, Men of Galilee, why do ye stand looking into  heaven? This Jesus who has been taken up from you into heaven,  shall thus come in the manner in which ye have beheld him going  into heaven.
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called \the  mount\ of Olives, which is near Jerusalem, a sabbath-day`s  journey off.
And when they were come into \the city\, they went up to  the upper chamber, where were staying both Peter, and John, and  James, and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew,  James \son\ of Alphaeus, and Simon the zealot, and Jude \the  brother\ of James.
These gave themselves all with one accord to continual  prayer, with \several\ women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and  with his brethren.
And in those days Peter, standing up in the midst of the  brethren, said, (the crowd of names \who were\ together \was\  about a hundred and twenty,)
Brethren, it was necessary that the scripture should have  been fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before, by the  mouth of David, concerning Judas, who became guide to those who  took Jesus;
for he was numbered amongst us, and had received a part in  this service.
(This \man\ then indeed got a field with \the\ reward of  iniquity, and, having fallen down headlong, burst in the midst,  and all his bowels gushed out.
And it was known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so  that that field was called in their own dialect Aceldama; that  is, field of blood.)
For it is written in \the\ book of Psalms, Let his  homestead become desolate, and let there be no dweller in it;  and, Let another take his overseership.
It is necessary therefore, that of the men who have  assembled with us all \the\ time in which the Lord Jesus came  in and went out among us,
beginning from the baptism of John until the day in which  he was taken up from us, one of these should be a witness with  us of his resurrection.
And they appointed two, Joseph, who was called Barsabas,  who had been surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
And they prayed, and said, Thou Lord, knower of the hearts  of all, shew which one of these two thou hast chosen,
to receive the lot of this service and apostleship, from  which Judas transgressing fell to go to his own place.
And they gave lots on them, and the lot fell on Matthias,  and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
