And it came to pass, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul,  having passed through the upper districts, came to Ephesus, and  finding certain disciples,
he said to them, Did ye receive \the\ Holy Spirit when ye  had believed? And they \said\ to him, We did not even hear if  \the\ Holy Spirit was \come\.
And he said, To what then were ye baptised? And they said,  To the baptism of John.
And Paul said, John indeed baptised \with\ the baptism of  repentance, saying to the people that they should believe on  him that was coming after him, that is, on Jesus.
And when they heard that, they were baptised to the name of  the Lord Jesus.
And Paul having laid \his\ hands on them, the Holy Spirit  came upon them, and they spoke with tongues and prophesied.
And all the men were about twelve.
And entering into the synagogue, he spoke boldly during  three months, reasoning and persuading \the things\ concerning  the kingdom of God.
But when some were hardened and disbelieved, speaking evil  of the way before the multitude, he left them and separated the  disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus.
And this took place for two years, so that all that  inhabited Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and  Greeks.
And God wrought no ordinary miracles by the hands of Paul,
so that even napkins or aprons were brought from his body  \and put\ upon the sick, and the diseases left them, and the  wicked spirits went out.
And certain of the Jewish exorcists also, who went about,  took in hand to call upon those who had wicked spirits the name  of the Lord Jesus, saying, I adjure you by Jesus, whom Paul  preaches.
And there were certain \men\, seven sons of Sceva, Jewish  high priest, who were doing this.
But the wicked spirit answering said to them, Jesus I  know, and Paul I am acquainted with; but *ye*, who are ye?
And the man in whom the wicked spirit was leaped upon  them, and having mastered both, prevailed against them, so that  they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
And this became known to all, both Jews and Greeks, who  inhabited Ephesus, and fear fell upon all of them, and the name  of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
And many of those that believed came confessing and  declaring their deeds.
And many of those that practised curious arts brought  their books \of charms\ and burnt them before all. And they  reckoned up the prices of them, and found it fifty thousand  pieces of silver.
Thus with might the word of the Lord increased and  prevailed.
And when these things were fulfilled, Paul purposed in his  spirit to go to Jerusalem, passing through Macedonia and  Achaia, saying, After I have been there I must see Rome also.
And having sent into Macedonia two of those ministering to  him, Timotheus and Erastus, he remained himself awhile in Asia.
And there took place at that time no small disturbance  about the way.
For a certain \man\ by name Demetrius, a silver-beater,  making silver temples of Artemis, brought no small gain to the  artisans;
whom having brought together, and those who wrought in  such things, he said, Men, ye know that our well-living arises  from this work,
and ye see and hear that this Paul has persuaded and  turned away a great crowd, not only of Ephesus, but almost of  all Asia, saying that they are no gods which are made with  hands.
Now not only there is danger for us that our business come  into discredit, but also that the temple of the great goddess  Artemis be counted for nothing, and that her greatness should  be destroyed whom the whole of Asia and the world reveres.
And having heard \this\, and being filled with rage, they  cried out, saying, Great \is\ Artemis of the Ephesians.
And the \whole\ city was filled with confusion, and they  rushed with one accord to the theatre, having seized and  carried off with \them\ Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians,  fellow-travellers of Paul.
But Paul intending to go in to the people, the disciples  suffered him not;
and some of the Asiarchs also, who were his friends, sent  to him and urged him not to throw himself into the theatre.
Different persons therefore cried out some different  thing; for the assembly was tumultuous, and the most did not  know for what cause they had come together.
But from among the crowd they put forward Alexander, the  Jews pushing him forward. And Alexander, beckoning with his  hand, would have made a defence to the people.
But, recognising that he was a Jew, there was one cry from  all, shouting for about two hours, Great \is\ Artemis of the  Ephesians.
And the townclerk, having quieted the crowd, said,  Ephesians, what man is there then who does not know that the  city of the Ephesians is temple-keeper of Artemis the great,  and of the \image\ which fell down from heaven?
These things therefore being undeniable, it is necessary  that ye should be calm and do nothing headlong.
For ye have brought these men, \who are\ neither  temple-plunderers, nor speak injuriously of your goddess.
If therefore Demetrius and the artisans who \are\ with him  have a matter against any one, the courts are being held, and  there are proconsuls: let them accuse one another.
But if ye inquire anything concerning other matters, it  will be settled in the regular assembly.
For also we are in danger to be put in accusation for  sedition for this \affair\ of to-day, no cause existing in  reference to which we shall be able to give a reason for this  concourse.
And having said these things, he dismissed the assembly.
