And Paul, fixing his eyes on the council, said, Brethren, I  have walked in all good conscience with God unto this day.
But the high priest Ananias ordered those standing by him  to smite his mouth.
Then Paul said to him, God will smite thee, whited wall.  And *thou*, dost thou sit judging me according to the law, and  breaking the law commandest me to be smitten?
And those that stood by said, Dost thou rail against the  high priest of God?
And Paul said, I was not conscious, brethren, that he was  high priest; for it is written, Thou shalt not speak evilly of  the ruler of thy people.
But Paul, knowing that the one part \of them\ were of the  Sadducees and the other of the Pharisees, cried out in the  council, Brethren, *I* am a Pharisee, son of Pharisees: *I* am  judged concerning the hope and resurrection of \the\ dead.
And when he had spoken this, there was a tumult of the  Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the multitude was divided.
For Sadducees say there is no resurrection, nor angel, nor  spirit; but Pharisees confess both of them.
And there was a great clamour, and the scribes of the  Pharisees` part rising up contended, saying, We find nothing  evil in this man; and if a spirit has spoken to him, or an  angel ...
And a great tumult having arisen, the chiliarch, fearing  lest Paul should have been torn in pieces by them, commanded  the troop to come down and take him by force from the midst of  them, and to bring \him\ into the fortress.
But the following night the Lord stood by him, and said,  Be of good courage; for as thou hast testified the things  concerning me at Jerusalem, so thou must bear witness at Rome  also.
And when it was day, the Jews, having banded together, put  themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat  nor drink till they should kill Paul.
And they were more than forty who had joined together in  this oath;
and they went to the chief priests and elders, and said,  We have cursed ourselves with a curse to taste nothing until we  kill Paul.
Now therefore do ye with the council make a representation  to the chiliarch so that he may bring him down to you, as about  to determine more precisely what concerns him, and we, before  he draws near, are ready to kill him.
But Paul`s sister`s son, having heard of the lying in  wait, came and entered into the fortress and reported \it\ to  Paul.
And Paul, having called one of the centurions, said, Take  this youth to the chiliarch, for he has something to report to  him.
He therefore, having taken him with \him\, led him to the  chiliarch, and says, The prisoner Paul called me to \him\ and  asked me to lead this youth to thee, who has something to say  to thee.
And the chiliarch having taken him by the hand, and having  gone apart in private, inquired, What is it that thou hast to  report to me?
And he said, The Jews have agreed together to make a  request to thee, that thou mayest bring Paul down to-morrow  into the council, as about to inquire something more precise  concerning him.
Do not thou then be persuaded by them, for there lie in  wait for him of them more than forty men, who have put  themselves under a curse neither to eat nor drink till they  kill him; and now they are ready waiting the promise from thee.
The chiliarch then dismissed the youth, commanding \him\,  Utter to no one that thou hast represented these things to me.
And having called to \him\ certain two of the centurions,  he said, Prepare two hundred soldiers that they may go as far  as Caesarea, and seventy horsemen, and two hundred light-armed  footmen, for the third hour of the night.
And \he ordered them\ to provide beasts, that they might  set Paul on them and carry \him\ safe through to Felix the  governor,
having written a letter, couched in this form:
Claudius Lysias to the most excellent governor Felix,  greeting.
This man, having been taken by the Jews, and being about  to be killed by them, I came up with the military and took out  \of their hands\, having learned that he was a Roman.
And desiring to know the charge on which they accused him,  I brought him down to their council;
whom I found to be accused of questions of their law, but  to have no charge laid against him \making him\ worthy of death  or of bonds.
But having received information of a plot about to be put  in execution against the man \by the Jews\, I have immediately  sent him to thee, commanding also his accusers to say before  thee the things that are against him. \Farewell.\
The soldiers therefore, according to what was ordered  them, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris,
and on the morrow, having left the horsemen to go with  him, returned to the fortress.
And these, having entered into Caesarea, and given up the  letter to the governor, presented Paul also to him.
And having read \it\, and asked of what eparchy he was,  and learned that \he was\ of Cilicia,
he said, I will hear thee fully when thine accusers also  are arrived. And he commanded him to be kept in Herod`s  praetorium.
