And after five days came down the high priest Ananias, with  the elders, and a certain orator called Tertullus, and laid  their informations against Paul before the governor.
And he having been called, Tertullus began to accuse,  saying, Seeing we enjoy great peace through thee, and that  excellent measures are executed for this nation by thy  forethought,
we receive \it\ always and everywhere, most excellent  Felix, with all thankfulness.
But that I may not too much intrude on thy time, I beseech  thee to hear us briefly in thy kindness.
For finding this man a pest, and moving sedition among all  the Jews throughout the world, and a leader of the sect of the  Nazaraeans;
who also attempted to profane the temple; whom we also had  seized, \and would have judged according to our law;
but Lysias, the chiliarch, coming up, took \him\ away with  great force out of our hands,
having commanded his accusers to come to thee;\ of whom  thou canst thyself, in examining \him\, know the certainty of  all these things of which we accuse him.
And the Jews also joined in pressing the matter against  \Paul\, saying that these things were so.
But Paul, the governor having beckoned to him to speak,  answered, Knowing that for many years thou hast been judge to  this nation, I answer readily as to the things which concern  myself.
As thou mayest know that there are not more than twelve  days since I went up to worship at Jerusalem,
and neither in the temple did they find me discoursing to  any one, or making any tumultuous gathering together of the  crowd, nor in the synagogues, nor in the city;
neither can they make good the things of which they now  accuse me.
But this I avow to thee, that in the way which they call  sect, so I serve my fathers` God, believing all things which  are written throughout the law, and in the prophets;
having hope towards God, which they themselves also  receive, that there is to be a resurrection both of just and  unjust.
For this cause I also exercise \myself\ to have in  everything a conscience without offence towards God and men.
And after a lapse of many years I arrived, bringing alms  to my nation, and offerings.
Whereupon they found me purified in the temple, with  neither crowd nor tumult. But it was certain Jews from Asia,
who ought to appear before thee and accuse, if they have  anything against me;
or let these themselves say what wrong they found in me  when I stood before the council,
\other\ than concerning this one voice which I cried  standing amongst them: I am judged this day by you touching  \the\ resurrection of \the\ dead.
And Felix, knowing accurately the things concerning the  way, adjourned them, saying, When Lysias the chiliarch is come  down I will determine your affair;
ordering the centurion to keep him, and that he should  have freedom, and to hinder none of his friends to minister to  him.
And after certain days, Felix having arrived with Drusilla  his wife, who was a Jewess, he sent for Paul and heard him  concerning the faith in Christ.
And as he reasoned concerning righteousness, and  temperance, and the judgment about to come, Felix, being filled  with fear, answered, Go for the present, and when I get an  opportunity I will send for thee;
hoping at the same time that money would be given him by  Paul: wherefore also he sent for him the oftener and communed  with him.
But when two years were completed, Felix was relieved by  Porcius Festus as his successor; and Felix, desirous to oblige  the Jews, to acquire their favour, left Paul bound.
