But when it had been determined that we should sail to  Italy, they delivered up Paul and certain other prisoners to a  centurion, by name Julius, of Augustus` company.
And going on board a ship of Adramyttium about to navigate  by the places along Asia, we set sail, Aristarchus, a  Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us.
And the next day we arrived at Sidon. And Julius treated  Paul kindly and suffered him to go to his friends and refresh  himself.
And setting sail thence we sailed under the lee of Cyprus,  because the winds were contrary.
And having sailed over the waters of Cilicia and Pamphylia  we came to Myra in Lycia:
and there the centurion having found a ship of Alexandria  sailing to Italy, he made us go on board her.
And sailing slowly for many days, and having with  difficulty got abreast of Cnidus, the wind not suffering us, we  sailed under the lee of Crete abreast of Salmone;
and coasting it with difficulty we came to a certain place  called Fair Havens, near to which was \the\ city of Lasaea.
And much time having now been spent, and navigation being  already dangerous, because the fast also was already past, Paul  counselled them,
saying, Men, I perceive that the navigation will be with  disaster and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but  also of our lives.
But the centurion believed rather the helmsman and the  shipowner than what was said by Paul.
And the harbour being ill adapted to winter in, the most  counselled to set sail thence, if perhaps they might reach  Phoenice to winter in, a port of Crete looking north-east and  south-east.
And \the\ south wind blowing gently, supposing that they  had gained their object, having weighed anchor they sailed  close in shore along Crete.
But not long after there came down it a hurricane called  Euroclydon.
And the ship being caught and driven, and not able to  bring her head to the wind, letting her go we were driven  \before it\.
But running under the lee of a certain island called  Clauda, we were with difficulty able to make ourselves masters  of the boat;
which having hoisted up, they used helps, frapping the  ship; and fearing lest they should run into Syrtis and run  aground, and having lowered the gear they were so driven.
But the storm being extremely violent on us, on the next  day they threw cargo overboard,
and on the third day with their own hands they cast away  the ship furniture.
And neither sun nor stars appearing for many days, and no  small storm lying on us, in the end all hope of our being saved  was taken away.
And when they had been a long while without taking food,  Paul then standing up in the midst of them said, Ye ought, O  men, to have hearkened to me, and not have made sail from Crete  and have gained this disaster and loss.
And now I exhort you to be of good courage, for there  shall be no loss at all of life of \any\ of you, only of the  ship.
For an angel of the God, whose I am and whom I serve,  stood by me this night,
saying, Fear not, Paul; thou must stand before Caesar; and  behold, God has granted to thee all those that sail with thee.
Wherefore be of good courage, men, for I believe God that  thus it shall be, as it has been said to me.
But we must be cast ashore on a certain island.
And when the fourteenth night was come, we being driven  about in Adria, towards the middle of the night the sailors  supposed that some land neared them,
and having sounded found twenty fathoms, and having gone a  little farther and having again sounded they found fifteen  fathoms;
and fearing lest we should be cast on rocky places,  casting four anchors out of the stern, they wished that day  were come.
But the sailors wishing to flee out of the ship, and  having let down the boat into the sea under pretext of being  about to carry out anchors from the prow,
Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, Unless these  abide in the ship *ye* cannot be saved.
Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the boat and let  her fall.
And while it was drawing on to daylight, Paul exhorted  them all to partake of food, saying, Ye have passed the  fourteenth day watching in expectation without taking food.
Wherefore I exhort you to partake of food, for this has to  do with your safety; for not a hair from the head of any one of  you shall perish.
And, having said these things and taken a loaf, he gave  thanks to God before all, and having broken it began to eat.
And all taking courage, themselves also took food.
And we were in the ship, all the souls, two hundred and  seventy-six.
And having satisfied themselves with food, they lightened  the ship, casting out the wheat into the sea.
And when it was day they did not recognise the land; but  they perceived a certain bay having a strand, on which they  were minded, if they should be able, to run the ship ashore;
and, having cast off the anchors, they left \them\ in the  sea, at the same time loosening the lashings of the rudders,  and hoisting the foresail to the wind, they made for the  strand.
And falling into a place where two seas met they ran the  ship aground, and the prow having stuck itself fast remained  unmoved, but the stern was broken by the force of the waves.
And \the\ counsel of the soldiers was that they should  kill the prisoners, lest any one should swim off and escape.
But the centurion, desirous of saving Paul, hindered them  of their purpose, and commanded those who were able to swim,  casting themselves first \into the sea\, to get out on land;
and the rest, some on boards, some on some of the things  \that came\ from the ship; and thus it came to pass that all  got safe to land.
