Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus;     To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:
Grace to you, and peace from God, our Father, and the Lord, Jesus Christ.
I thank my God whenever I remember you,
always in every request of mine on behalf of you all making my requests with joy,
for your fellowship in furtherance of the gospel from the first day until now;
being confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ.
It is even right for me to think this way on behalf of all of you, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as, both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers with me of grace.
For God is my witness, how I long after all of you in the tender mercies of Christ Jesus.
This I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment;
so that you may approve the things that are excellent; that you may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ;
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
Now I desire to have you know, brothers, that the things which happened to me have turned out rather to the progress of the gospel;
so that my bonds became revealed in Christ throughout the whole praetorian guard, and to all the rest;
and that most of the brothers in the Lord, being confident through my bonds, are more abundantly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
Some indeed preach Christ even out of envy and strife, and some also out of good will.
The former preach Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely, thinking that they add affliction to my chains;
but the latter out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel.
What does it matter? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed. I rejoice in this, yes, and will rejoice.
For I know that this will turn out to my salvation, through your supplication and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will in no way be put to shame, but with all boldness, as always, now also Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
But if to live in the flesh, this will bring fruit from my work; then I don't make known what I will choose.
But I am in a dilemma between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, for that is very far better.
Yet, to remain in the flesh is more needful for your sake.
Having this confidence, I know that I will remain, yes, and remain with you all, for your progress and joy in the faith,
that your rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence with you again.
Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, that, whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your state, that you stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving for the faith of the gospel;
and in nothing frightened by the adversaries, which is for them a proof of destruction, but to you of salvation, and that from God.
Because it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer on his behalf,
having the same conflict which you saw in me, and now hear is in me.
