A false balance is an abomination to Jehovah; but a just  weight is his delight.
\When\ pride cometh, then cometh shame; but with the lowly  is wisdom.
The integrity of the upright guideth them; but the  crookedness of the unfaithful destroyeth them.
Wealth profiteth not in the day of wrath; but righteousness  delivereth from death.
The righteousness of the perfect maketh plain his way; but  the wicked falleth by his own wickedness.
The righteousness of the upright delivereth them; but the  treacherous are taken in their own craving.
When a wicked man dieth, \his\ expectation shall perish;  and the hope of evil \men\ perisheth.
The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked  cometh in his stead.
With his mouth a hypocrite destroyeth his neighbour; but  through knowledge are the righteous delivered.
When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth;  and when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted; but it  is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
He that despiseth his neighbour is void of heart; but a  man of understanding holdeth his peace.
He that goeth about talebearing revealeth secrets; but he  that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.
Where no advice is, the people fall; but in the multitude  of counsellors there is safety.
It goeth ill with him that is surety for another; but he  that hateth suretyship is secure.
A gracious woman retaineth honour; and the violent retain  riches.
The merciful man doeth good to his own soul; but the cruel  troubleth his own flesh.
The wicked worketh a deceitful work; but he that soweth  righteousness hath a sure reward.
As righteousness \tendeth\ to life, so he that pursueth  evil \doeth it\ to his own death.
The perverse in heart are abomination to Jehovah; but they  that are perfect in \their\ way are his delight.
Hand for hand! an evil \man\ shall not be held innocent;  but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
A fair woman who is without discretion, is \as\ a gold  ring in a swine`s snout.
The desire of the righteous is only good; the expectation  of the wicked is wrath.
There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is  that withholdeth more than is right, but \it tendeth\ only to  want.
The liberal soul shall be made fat, and he that watereth  shall be watered also himself.
He that withholdeth corn, the people curse him; but  blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.
He that is earnest after good seeketh favour; but he that  searcheth for mischief, it shall come upon him.
He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the  righteous shall flourish as a leaf.
He that troubleth his own house shall inherit wind; and  the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and the wise  winneth souls.
Behold, the righteous shall be requited on the earth: how  much more the wicked and the sinner.
