Whoso loveth discipline loveth knowledge, but he that  hateth reproof is brutish.
A good \man\ obtaineth favour of Jehovah; but a man of  mischievous devices will he condemn.
A man shall not be established by wickedness; but the root  of the righteous shall not be moved.
A woman of worth is a crown to her husband; but she that  maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are right; the counsels of  the wicked are deceit.
The words of the wicked are a lying-in-wait for blood; but  the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
Overthrow the wicked, and they are no \more\; but the house  of the righteous shall stand.
A man is commended according to his wisdom; but he that is  of a perverted heart shall be despised.
Better is he that is lightly esteemed, and hath a servant,  than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.
A righteous man is concerned for the life of his beast;  but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread;  but he that followeth the worthless is void of understanding.
The wicked desireth the net of evil \men\; but the root of  the righteous yieldeth \fruit\.
In the transgression of the lips is an evil snare; but a  righteous \man\ shall go forth out of trouble.
A man is satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth;  and the recompense of a man`s hands shall be rendered unto him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes; but he that is  wise hearkeneth unto counsel.
The vexation of the fool is presently known; but a prudent  \man\ covereth shame.
He that uttereth truth sheweth forth righteousness; but a  false witness deceit.
There is that babbleth like the piercings of a sword; but  the tongue of the wise is health.
The lip of truth shall be established for ever; but a  lying tongue is but for a moment.
Deceit is in the heart of them that devise evil; but to  the counsellors of peace is joy.
There shall no evil happen to a righteous \man\; but the  wicked shall be filled with mischief.
Lying lips are an abomination to Jehovah; but they that  deal truly are his delight.
A prudent man concealeth knowledge; but the heart of the  foolish proclaimeth folly.
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule; but the slothful  \hand\ shall be under tribute.
Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop; but a good  word maketh it glad.
The righteous guideth his neighbour; but the way of the  wicked misleadeth them.
The slothful roasteth not what he took in hunting; but  man`s precious substance is to the diligent.
In the path of righteousness is life, and in the pathway  thereof there is no death.
