The wisdom of women buildeth their house; but folly  plucketh it down with her hands.
He that walketh in his uprightness feareth Jehovah; but he  that is perverted in his ways despiseth him.
In the fool`s mouth is a rod of pride; but the lips of the  wise shall preserve them.
Where no oxen are, the crib is clean; but much increase is  by the strength of the ox.
A faithful witness will not lie; but a false witness  uttereth lies.
A scorner seeketh wisdom, and there is none \for him\; but  knowledge is easy unto the intelligent.
Go from the presence of a foolish man, in whom thou  perceivest not the lips of knowledge.
The wisdom of the prudent is to discern his way; but the  folly of the foolish is deceit.
Fools make a mock at trespass; but for the upright there is  favour.
The heart knoweth its own bitterness, and a stranger doth  not intermeddle with its joy.
The house of the wicked shall be overthrown; but the tent  of the upright shall flourish.
There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end  thereof is the ways of death.
Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful, and the end of  mirth is sadness.
The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways,  and the good man from what is in himself.
The simple believeth every word; but the prudent \man\  heedeth his going.
A wise \man\ feareth and departeth from evil; but the  foolish is overbearing and confident.
He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly, and a man of  mischievous devices is hated.
The simple inherit folly; but the prudent are crowned with  knowledge.
The evil bow before the good, and the wicked at the gates  of the righteous \man\.
He that is poor is hated even of his own neighbour; but  the rich hath many friends.
He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth; but he that is  gracious to the afflicted, happy is he.
Do they not err that devise evil? but loving-kindness and  truth are for those that devise good.
In all labour there is profit; but the talk of the lips  \tendeth\ only to want.
The crown of the wise is their riches; the folly of the  foolish is folly.
A true witness delivereth souls; but deceit uttereth lies.
In the fear of Jehovah is strong confidence, and his  children shall have a place of refuge.
The fear of Jehovah is a fountain of life, to turn away  from the snares of death.
In the multitude of people is the king`s glory; but in the  lack of people is the ruin of a prince.
He that is slow to anger is of great understanding; but he  that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.
A sound heart is the life of the flesh; but envy the  rottenness of the bones.
He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker; but he  that honoureth Him is gracious to the needy.
The wicked is driven away by his evil-doing; but the  righteous trusteth, \even\ in his death.
Wisdom resteth in the heart of the intelligent \man\; but  that which is in the foolish maketh itself known.
Righteousness exalteth a nation; but sin is a reproach to  peoples.
The king`s favour is toward a wise servant; but his wrath  is \against\ him that causeth shame.
