A soft answer turneth away fury; but a grievous word  stirreth up anger.
The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright; but the  mouth of the foolish poureth out folly.
The eyes of Jehovah are in every place, beholding the evil  and the good.
Gentleness of tongue is a tree of life; but crookedness  therein is a breaking of the spirit.
A fool despiseth his father`s instruction; but he that  regardeth reproof becometh prudent.
In the house of a righteous \man\ is much treasure; but in  the revenue of a wicked \man\ is disturbance.
The lips of the wise disperse knowledge, but not so the  heart of the foolish.
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to Jehovah;  but the prayer of the upright is his delight.
The way of a wicked \man\ is an abomination to Jehovah; but  him that pursueth righteousness he loveth.
Grievous correction is for him that forsaketh the path; he  that hateth reproof shall die.
Sheol and destruction are before Jehovah; how much more  then the hearts of the children of men!
A scorner loveth not one that reproveth him; he will not  go unto the wise.
A joyful heart maketh a cheerful countenance; but by  sorrow of heart the spirit is broken.
The heart of an intelligent \man\ seeketh knowledge; but  the mouth of the foolish feedeth on folly.
All the days of the afflicted are evil; but a cheerful  heart is a continual feast.
Better is little with the fear of Jehovah than great store  and disquietude therewith.
Better is a meal of herbs where love is, than a fatted ox  and hatred therewith.
A furious man stirreth up contention; but he that is slow  to anger appeaseth strife.
The way of the sluggard is as a hedge of thorns; but the  path of the upright is made plain.
A wise son maketh a glad father; but a foolish man  despiseth his mother.
Folly is joy to him that is void of sense; but a man of  understanding regulateth his walk.
Without counsel purposes are disappointed; but in the  multitude of counsellors they are established.
A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth; and a word in  its season, how good is it!
The path of life is upwards for the wise, that he may  depart from Sheol beneath.
Jehovah plucketh up the house of the proud; but he  establisheth the boundary of the widow.
The thoughts of the evil \man\ are an abomination to  Jehovah; but pure words are pleasant.
He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he  that hateth gifts shall live.
The heart of a righteous \man\ studieth to answer; but the  mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.
Jehovah is far from the wicked; but he heareth the prayer  of the righteous.
That which enlighteneth the eyes rejoiceth the heart; good  tidings make the bones fat.
The ear that heareth the reproof of life shall abide among  the wise.
He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul; but  he that heareth reproof getteth sense.
The fear of Jehovah is the discipline of wisdom, and  before honour \goeth\ humility.
