The purposes of the heart are of man, but the answer of the  tongue is from Jehovah.
All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but  Jehovah weigheth the spirits.
Commit thy works unto Jehovah, and thy thoughts shall be  established.
Jehovah hath wrought everything on his own account, yea,  even the wicked for the day of evil.
Every proud heart is an abomination to Jehovah: hand for  hand, he shall not be held innocent.
By loving-kindness and truth iniquity is atoned for; and by  the fear of Jehovah \men\ depart from evil.
When a man`s ways please Jehovah, he maketh even his  enemies to be at peace with him.
Better is a little with righteousness, than great revenues  without right.
The heart of man deviseth his way, but Jehovah directeth  his steps.
An oracle is on the lips of the king: his mouth will not  err in judgment.
The just balance and scales are Jehovah`s; all the weights  of the bag are his work.
It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness; for  the throne is established by righteousness.
Righteous lips are the delight of kings, and they love him  that speaketh aright.
The fury of a king is \as\ messengers of death; but a wise  man will pacify it.
In the light of the king`s countenance is life, and his  favour is as a cloud of the latter rain.
How much better is it to get wisdom than fine gold, and  the getting of intelligence to be preferred to silver!
The highway of the upright is to depart from evil: he that  taketh heed to his way keepeth his soul.
Pride \goeth\ before destruction, and a haughty spirit  before a fall.
Better is it to be of a humble spirit with the meek, than  to divide the spoil with the proud.
He that giveth heed to the word shall find good; and whoso  confideth in Jehovah, happy is he.
The wise in heart is called intelligent, and the sweetness  of the lips increaseth learning.
Wisdom is a fountain of life for him that hath it; but the  instruction of fools is folly.
The heart of the wise maketh his mouth intelligent, and  upon his lips increaseth learning.
Pleasant words are \as\ a honeycomb, sweet to the soul,  and health for the bones.
There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end  thereof is the ways of death.
The appetite of the labourer laboureth for him, for his  mouth urgeth him on.
A man of Belial diggeth up evil, and on his lips there is  as a scorching fire.
A false man soweth contention; and a talebearer separateth  very friends.
A violent man enticeth his neighbour, and leadeth him into  a way that is not good.
He that shutteth his eyes, \it is\ to devise froward  things; biting his lips, he bringeth evil to pass.
The hoary head is a crown of glory, \if\ it is found in  the way of righteousness.
He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he  that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city.
The lot is cast into the lap; but the whole decision is of  Jehovah.
