Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than a  house full of feasting \with\ strife.
A wise servant shall rule over a son that causeth shame,  and shall have part in the inheritance among the brethren.
The fining-pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold; but  Jehovah trieth the hearts.
The evil-doer giveth heed to iniquitous lips; the liar  giveth ear to a mischievous tongue.
Whoso mocketh a poor \man\ reproacheth his Maker; he that  is glad at calamity shall not be held innocent.
Children`s children are the crown of old men; and the glory  of children are their fathers.
Excellent speech becometh not a vile \man\; how much less  do lying lips a noble!
A gift is a precious stone in the eyes of the possessor:  whithersoever it turneth it prospereth.
He that covereth transgression seeketh love; but he that  bringeth a matter up again separateth very friends.
A reproof entereth more deeply into him that hath  understanding than a hundred stripes into a fool.
An evil \man\ seeketh only rebellion; but a cruel  messenger shall be sent against him.
Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man rather than a  fool in his folly.
Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from  his house.
The beginning of contention is \as\ when one letteth out  water; therefore leave off strife before it become vehement.
He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the  righteous, even they both are abomination to Jehovah.
To what purpose is there a price in the hand of a fool to  get wisdom, seeing \he\ hath no sense?
The friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for  adversity.
A senseless man striketh hands, becoming surety for his  neighbour.
He loveth transgression that loveth a quarrel; he that  maketh high his gate seeketh destruction.
He that hath a perverse heart findeth no good; and he that  shifteth about with his tongue falleth into evil.
He that begetteth a fool \doeth it\ to his sorrow, and the  father of a vile \man\ hath no joy.
A joyful heart promoteth healing; but a broken spirit  drieth up the bones.
A wicked \man\ taketh a gift out of the bosom, to pervert  the paths of judgment.
Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes  of a fool are in the ends of the earth.
A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to  her that bore him.
To punish a righteous \man\ is not good, nor to strike  nobles because of \their\ uprightness.
He that hath knowledge spareth his words; and a man of  understanding is of a cool spirit.
Even a fool when he holdeth his peace is reckoned wise,  \and\ he that shutteth his lips, intelligent.
