Wine is a scorner, strong drink is raging; and whoso erreth  thereby is not wise.
The terror of a king is as the roaring of a lion: he that  provoketh him to anger sinneth against his own soul.
It is an honour for a man to cease from strife; but every  fool rusheth into it.
The sluggard will not plough by reason of the winter; he  shall beg in harvest, and have nothing.
Counsel in the heart of man is deep water, and a man of  understanding draweth it out.
Most men will proclaim every one his own kindness; but a  faithful man who shall find?
The righteous walketh in his integrity: blessed are his  children after him!
A king sitting on the throne of judgment scattereth away  all evil with his eyes.
Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my  sin?
Divers weights, divers measures, even both of them are  abomination to Jehovah.
Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be  pure, and whether it be right.
The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, Jehovah hath made  even both of them.
Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine  eyes, \and\ thou shalt be satisfied with bread.
Bad! bad! saith the buyer; but when he is gone his way,  then he boasteth.
There is gold, and a multitude of rubies; but the lips of  knowledge are a precious Jewel.
Take his garment that is become surety \for\ another, and  hold him in pledge for strangers.
Bread of falsehood is sweet to a man, but afterwards his  mouth shall be filled with gravel.
Plans are established by counsel; and with good advice  make war.
He that goeth about talebearing revealeth secrets;  therefore meddle not with him that openeth his lips.
Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be  put out in the blackest darkness.
An inheritance obtained hastily at the beginning will not  be blessed in the end.
Say not, I will recompense evil: wait on Jehovah, and he  shall save thee.
Divers weights are an abomination unto Jehovah; and a  false balance is not good.
The steps of a man are from Jehovah; and how can a man  understand his own way?
It is a snare to a man rashly to say, It is hallowed, and  after vows to make inquiry.
A wise king scattereth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel  over them.
Man`s spirit is the lamp of Jehovah, searching all the  inner parts of the belly.
Mercy and truth preserve the king; and he upholdeth his  throne by mercy.
The glory of young men is their strength; and the beauty  of old men is the grey head.
Wounding stripes purge away evil, and strokes \purge\ the  inner parts of the belly.
