A \good\ name is rather to be chosen than great riches;  loving favour rather than silver and gold.
The rich and poor meet together; Jehovah is the maker of  them all.
A prudent \man\ seeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the  simple pass on, and are punished.
The reward of humility \and\ the fear of Jehovah is riches,  and honour, and life.
Thorns \and\ snares are in the way of the perverse: he that  keepeth his soul holdeth himself far from them.
Train up the child according to the tenor of his way, and  when he is old he will not depart from it.
The rich ruleth over the poor; and the borrower is servant  to the lender.
He that soweth unrighteousness shall reap iniquity, and the  rod of his wrath shall have an end.
He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed, for he  giveth of his bread to the poor.
Cast out the scorner, and contention will depart, and  strife and ignominy shall cease.
He that loveth pureness of heart, upon whose lips is  grace, the king is his friend.
The eyes of Jehovah preserve knowledge; but he  overthroweth the words of the unfaithful.
The sluggard saith, There is a lion without, I shall be  killed in the streets!
The mouth of strange women is a deep ditch: he with whom  Jehovah is displeased shall fall therein.
Folly is bound in the heart of a child; the rod of  correction shall drive it far from him.
He that oppresseth the poor, it is to enrich him; he that  giveth to the rich, \bringeth\ only to want.
Incline thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, and  apply thy heart unto my knowledge.
For it is a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thee:  they shall be together fitted on thy lips.
That thy confidence may be in Jehovah, I have made \them\  known to thee this day, even to thee.
Have not I written to thee excellent things, in counsels  and knowledge,
that I might make thee know the certainty of the words of  truth; that thou mightest carry back words of truth to them  that send thee?
Rob not the poor, because he is poor, neither oppress the  afflicted in the gate;
for Jehovah will plead their cause, and despoil the soul  of those that despoil them.
Make no friendship with an angry man, and go not with a  furious man;
lest thou learn his paths, and get a snare to thy soul.
Be not of them that strike hands, of them that are  sureties for debts:
if thou hast nothing to pay, why should he take away thy  bed from under thee?
Remove not the ancient landmark which thy fathers have  set.
Hast thou seen a man diligent in his work? He shall stand  before kings; he shall not stand before the mean.
