As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour  beseemeth not a fool.
As the sparrow for flitting about, as the swallow for  flying, so a curse undeserved shall not come.
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for  the back of fools.
Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be  like unto him.
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in  his own eyes.
He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off  \his own\ feet, \and\ drinketh damage.
The legs of the lame hang loose; so is a proverb in the  mouth of fools.
As a bag of gems in a stoneheap, so is he that giveth  honour to a fool.
\As\ a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a  proverb in the mouth of fools.
A master roughly worketh every one: he both hireth the  fool and hireth passers-by.
As a dog turneth back to its vomit, \so\ a fool repeateth  his folly.
Hast thou seen a man wise in his own eyes? There is more  hope of a fool than of him.
The sluggard saith, There is a fierce lion in the way; a  lion is in the midst of the streets!
\As\ the door turneth upon its hinges, so the sluggard  upon his bed.
The sluggard burieth his hand in the dish: it wearieth him  to bring it again to his mouth.
A sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven \men\ that  answer discreetly.
He that passing by vexeth himself with strife belonging  not to him, is \like\ one that taketh a dog by the ears.
As a madman who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death,
so is a man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am I  not in sport?
Where no wood is, the fire goeth out; and where there is  no talebearer, the contention ceaseth.
\As\ coals for hot coals, and wood for fire, so is a  contentious man to inflame strife.
The words of a talebearer are as dainty morsels, and they  go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
Ardent lips, and a wicked heart, are \as\ an earthen  vessel overlaid with silver dross.
He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, but he layeth up  deceit within him:
when his voice is gracious, believe him not, for there are  seven abominations in his heart.
Though \his\ hatred is covered by dissimulation, his  wickedness shall be made manifest in the congregation.
Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein; and he that  rolleth a stone, it shall return upon him.
A lying tongue hateth those that are injured by it, and a  flattering mouth worketh ruin.
