He that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall  suddenly be destroyed, and without remedy.
When the righteous increase, the people rejoice; but when  the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.
Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father; but he that is a  companion of harlots destroyeth \his\ substance.
A king by just judgment establisheth the land; but he that  taketh gifts overthroweth it.
A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his  steps.
In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare; but  the righteous shall sing and rejoice.
The righteous taketh knowledge of the cause of the poor;  the wicked understandeth not knowledge.
Scornful men set the city in a flame; but the wise turn  away anger.
If a wise man contendeth with a fool, whether he rage or  laugh, \he\ hath no rest.
The bloodthirsty hate the perfect, but the upright care  for his soul.
A fool uttereth all his mind; but a wise \man\ keepeth it  back.
If a ruler hearken to lying words, all his servants are  wicked.
The indigent and the oppressor meet together; Jehovah  lighteneth the eyes of them both.
A king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall  be established for ever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom; but a child left \to  himself\ bringeth his mother to shame.
When the wicked increase, transgression increaseth; but  the righteous shall see their fall.
Chasten thy son, and he shall give thee rest, and shall  give delight unto thy soul.
Where there is no vision the people cast off restraint;  but happy is he that keepeth the law.
A servant is not corrected by words: he understandeth  indeed, but he will not answer.
Hast thou seen a man hasty in his words? there is more  hope of a fool than of him.
He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child,  shall in the end have him as a son.
An angry man exciteth contention; and a furious man  aboundeth in transgression.
A man`s pride bringeth him low; but the humble in spirit  shall obtain honour.
Whoso shareth with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth  the adjuration, and declareth not.
The fear of man bringeth a snare; but whoso putteth his  confidence in Jehovah is protected.
Many seek the ruler`s face; but a man`s right judgment is  from Jehovah.
An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous; and he  that is of upright way is an abomination to the wicked \man\.
