My son, forget not my teaching, and let thy heart observe my  commandments;
for length of days, and years of life, and peace shall they  add to thee.
Let not loving-kindness and truth forsake thee; bind them  about thy neck, write them upon the tablet of thy heart:
and thou shalt find favour and good understanding in the  sight of God and man.
Confide in Jehovah with all thy heart, and lean not unto  thine own intelligence;
in all thy ways acknowledge him, and he will make plain thy  paths.
Be not wise in thine own eyes; fear Jehovah, and depart from  evil:
it shall be health for thy navel, and moisture for thy  bones.
Honour Jehovah with thy substance, and with the first-fruits  of all thine increase;
so shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy vats  shall overflow with new wine.
My son, despise not the instruction of Jehovah, neither be  weary of his chastisement;
for whom Jehovah loveth he chasteneth, even as a father the  son in whom he delighteth.
Blessed is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that  getteth understanding.
For the gain thereof is better than the gain of silver, and  her revenue than fine gold.
She is more precious than rubies; and all the things thou  canst desire are not equal unto her.
Length of days is in her right hand; in her left hand  riches and honour.
Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are  peace.
She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her; and  happy is he that retaineth her.
Jehovah by wisdom founded the earth; by understanding he  established the heavens.
By his knowledge the deeps were broken up, and the skies  drop down the dew.
My son, let them not depart from thine eyes; keep sound  wisdom and discretion:
so shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace unto thy  neck.
Then shalt thou walk in thy way securely, and thy foot  shall not stumble;
when thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid, but thou  shalt lie down and thy sleep shall be sweet.
Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the destruction of  the wicked, when it cometh;
for Jehovah shall be thy confidence, and he will keep thy  foot from being taken.
Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is  in the power of thy hand to do it.
Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and  to-morrow I will give, when thou hast it by thee.
Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth  securely by thee.
Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee  no harm.
Envy not the man of violence, and choose none of his ways.
For the perverse is an abomination to Jehovah; but his  secret is with the upright.
The curse of Jehovah is in the house of the wicked; but he  blesseth the habitation of the righteous.
He indeed scorneth the scorners; but he giveth grace unto  the lowly.
The wise shall inherit glory; but shame shall be the  promotion of the foolish.
