The words of Agur the son of Jakeh; the prophecy uttered by  the man unto Ithiel, \even\ unto Ithiel and Ucal:
Truly *I* am more stupid than any one; and I have not a  man`s intelligence.
I have neither learned wisdom, nor have I the knowledge of  the Holy.
Who hath ascended up into the heavens, and descended? Who  hath gathered the wind in his fists? Who hath bound the waters  in a mantle? Who hath established all the ends of the earth?  What is his name, and what is his son`s name, if thou knowest?
Every word of +God is pure: he is a shield unto them that  put their trust in him.
Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou  be found a liar.
Two things do I ask of thee; deny me \them\ not before I  die:
Remove far from me vanity and lies; give me neither poverty  nor riches; feed me with the bread of my daily need:
lest I be full and deny \thee\, and say, Who is Jehovah? or  lest I be poor and steal, and outrage the name of my God.
Speak not too much about a servant to his master, lest he  curse thee, and thou be held guilty.
There is a generation that curseth their father, and doth  not bless their mother;
there is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, yet  are not washed from their filthiness;
there is a generation, -- how lofty are their eyes, how  their eyelids are lifted up!
-- a generation whose teeth are swords, and their  jaw-teeth knives, to devour the afflicted from off the earth,  and the needy from \among\ men.
The leech hath two daughters: Give, give. There are three  \things\ never satisfied; four which say not, It is enough:
-- Sheol, and the barren womb; the earth which is not  filled with water, and the fire which saith not, It is enough.
The eye that mocketh at a father, and despiseth to obey a  mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the  young eagles shall eat it.
There are three \things\ too wonderful for me, and four  that I know not:
The way of an eagle in the heavens, the way of a serpent  upon a rock, the way of a ship in the midst of the sea, and the  way of a man with a maid.
Such is the way of an adulterous woman: she eateth, and  wipeth her mouth, and saith, I have done no wickedness.
Under three \things\ the earth is disquieted, and under  four it cannot bear up:
Under a servant when he reigneth, and a churl when he is  filled with meat;
under an odious \woman\ when she is married, and a  handmaid when she is heir to her mistress.
There are four \things\ little upon the earth, and they  are exceeding wise:
The ants, a people not strong, yet they provide their food  in the summer;
the rock-badgers are but a feeble folk, yet they make  their house in the cliff;
the locusts have no king, yet they go forth all of them by  bands;
thou takest hold of the lizard with the hands, yet is she  in kings` palaces.
There are three \things\ which have a stately step, and  four are comely in going:
The lion, mighty among beasts, which turneth not away for  any;
a \horse\ girt in the loins; or the he-goat; and a king,  against whom none can rise up.
If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if  thou hast thought evil, \lay\ the hand upon thy mouth.
For the pressing of milk bringeth forth butter, and the  pressing of the nose bringeth forth blood; and the pressing of  anger bringeth forth strife.
