The words of king Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother  taught him:
What, my son? and what, O son of my womb? and what, O son  of my vows?
Give not thy strength unto women, nor thy ways to them that  destroy kings.
It is not for kings, Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink  wine, nor for rulers \to say\, Where is the strong drink?
-- lest they drink and forget the law, and pervert the  judgment of any of the children of affliction.
Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and  wine unto the bitter of soul:
let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his  misery no more.
Open thy mouth for the dumb, for the cause of all those  that are left desolate.
Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and minister justice to  the afflicted and needy.
Who can find a woman of worth? for her price is far above  rubies.
The heart of her husband confideth in her, and he shall  have no lack of spoil.
She doeth him good, and not evil, all the days of her  life.
She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her  hands.
She is like the merchants` ships: she bringeth her food  from afar;
And she riseth while it is yet night, and giveth meat to  her household, and the day`s work to her maidens.
She considereth a field, and acquireth it; of the fruit of  her hands she planteth a vineyard.
She girdeth her loins with strength, and maketh strong her  arms.
She perceiveth that her earning is good; her lamp goeth  not out by night.
She putteth her hands to the distaff, and her hands hold  the spindle.
She stretcheth out her hand to the afflicted, and she  reacheth forth her hands to the needy.
She is not afraid of the snow for her household; for all  her household are clothed with scarlet.
She maketh herself coverlets; her clothing is byssus and  purple.
Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among  the elders of the land.
She maketh body linen and selleth it, and delivereth  girdles unto the merchant.
Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she laugheth  \at\ the coming day.
She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and upon her tongue is  the law of kindness.
She surveyeth the ways of her household, and eateth not  the bread of idleness.
Her children rise up and call her blessed; her husband  \also\, and he praiseth her:
Many daughters have done worthily, but thou excellest them  all.
Gracefulness is deceitful and beauty is vain; a woman  \that\ feareth Jehovah, she shall be praised.
Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works  praise her in the gates.
