My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee.
Keep my commandments, and live; and my teaching, as the  apple of thine eye.
Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the tablet of  thy heart.
Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister, and call intelligence  \thy\ kinswoman:
that they may keep thee from the strange woman, from the  stranger who flattereth with her words.
For at the window of my house, I looked forth through my  lattice,
and I beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the  sons, a young man void of understanding,
passing through the street near her corner; and he went the  way to her house,
in the twilight, in the evening of the day, in the blackness  of night and the darkness.
And behold, there met him a woman in the attire of a  harlot, and subtle of heart.
She is clamorous and unmanageable; her feet abide not in  her house:
now without, now in the broadways, -- and she lieth in wait  at every corner.
And she caught him and kissed him, and with an impudent  face said unto him,
I have peace-offerings with me; this day have I paid my  vows:
therefore came I forth to meet thee, to seek earnestly thy  face, and I have found thee.
I have decked my bed with tapestry coverlets of variegated  linen from Egypt;
I have perfumed my couch with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.
Come, let us revel in love until the morning, let us  delight ourselves with loves.
For the husband is not at home, he is gone a long journey;
he hath taken the money-bag with him, he will come home on  the day of the full moon.
With her much enticement she beguiled him; with the  smoothness of her lips she constrained him.
He went after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the  slaughter, and as stocks \serve\ for the correction of the  fool;
till an arrow strike through his liver: as a bird hasteth  to the snare, and knoweth not that it is for its life.
And now, ye sons, hearken unto me, and attend to the words  of my mouth.
Let not thy heart decline to her ways, go not astray in her  paths:
for she hath cast down many wounded, and all slain by her  were strong.
Her house is the way to Sheol, going down to the chambers  of death.
