Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding give forth her voice?
On the top of high places by the way, at the cross-paths she  taketh her stand.
Beside the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming in  at the doors, she crieth aloud.
Unto you, men, I call, and my voice is to the sons of man:
O ye simple, understand prudence; and ye foolish, understand  sense.
Hear, for I will speak excellent things, and the opening of  my lips shall be right things.
For my palate shall meditate truth, and wickedness is an  abomination to my lips.
All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is  nothing tortuous or perverse in them.
They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to  them that find knowledge.
Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge  rather than choice gold:
for wisdom is better than rubies, and all the things that  may be desired are not equal to it.
I wisdom dwell \with\ prudence, and find the knowledge  \which cometh\ of reflection.
The fear of Jehovah is to hate evil; pride, and arrogancy,  and the evil way, and the froward mouth do I hate.
Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am intelligence; I  have strength.
By me kings reign, and rulers make just decrees;
by me princes rule, and nobles, all the judges of the  earth.
I love those that love me; and they that seek me early  shall find me.
Riches and honour are with me; durable wealth and  righteousness.
My fruit is better than fine gold, yea, than pure gold; and  my revenue than choice silver.
I walk in the path of righteousness, in the midst of the  paths of judgment:
that I may cause those that love me to inherit substance;  and I will fill their treasuries.
Jehovah possessed me in the beginning of his way, before  his works of old.
I was set up from eternity, from the beginning, before the  earth was.
When there were no depths, I was brought forth, when there  were no fountains abounding with water.
Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I  brought forth;
while as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor  the beginning of the dust of the world.
When he prepared the heavens I was there; when he ordained  the circle upon the face of the deep;
when he established the skies above, when the fountains of  the deep became strong;
when he imposed on the sea his decree that the waters  should not pass his commandment, when he appointed the  foundations of the earth:
then I was by him \his\ nursling, and I was daily his  delight, rejoicing always before him;
rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth, and my  delights \were\ with the sons of men.
And now, sons, hearken unto me, and blessed are they that  keep my ways:
hear instruction and be wise, and refuse it not.
Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my  gates, waiting at the posts of my doors.
For whoso findeth me findeth life, and obtaineth favour of  Jehovah;
but he that sinneth against me doeth violence to his own  soul: all they that hate me love death.
