Now  the Spirit expressly declares that in  later times some will fall away from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and the teachings of demons;
through the hypocrisy of men who teach falsely and have their own consciences seared as with a hot iron;
forbidding people to marry, and insisting on abstinence from foods which God has created to be partaken of, with thankfulness, by those who believe and have a clear knowledge of the truth.
For everything that God has created is good, and nothing is to be cast aside, if only it is received with thanksgiving.
For it is made holy by the word of God and by prayer.
If you warn the brethren of these dangers you will be a good and faithful servant of Christ Jesus, inwardly feeding on the lessons of the faith and of the sound teaching of which you have been, and are, so close a follower.
But worldly stories, fit only for credulous old women, have nothing to do with.
Train yourself in godliness. Exercise for the body is not useless, but godliness is useful in every respect, possessing, as it does, the promise of Life now and of the Life which is soon coming.
Faithful is this saying and deserving of universal acceptance:
and here is the motive of our toiling and  wrestling, because  we have our hopes fixed on the  ever-living God, who is the Saviour  of all mankind, and especially of believers.
Command this and teach this.
Let no one think slightingly of you because you are a young man; but in speech, conduct, love, faith and purity, be an example for your fellow Christians to imitate.
Till I come, bestow your attention on  reading, exhortation and teaching.
Do not be careless about the gifts with which you are endowed, which were conferred on you through a divine revelation when the hands of the elders were placed upon you.
Habitually practise these duties, and be absorbed in them; so that your growing proficiency in them may be evident to all.
Be on your guard as to yourself and your teaching. Persevere in these things; for by doing this you will make certain your own salvation and that of your hearers.
