For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance to you, that it was not in vain:
But even after we had suffered before, and were shamefully treated, as ye know, at Phillippi, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God with much contention.
For our exhortation was not from deceit, nor from impurity, nor in guile;
But as we were allowed by God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, who trieth our hearts.
For neither at any time used we flattering words, as ye know, nor a cloke of covetousness; God is witness:
Nor from men sought we glory, neither from you, nor yet from others, when we might have been burdensome, as the apostles of Christ.
So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted to you, not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls, because ye were dear to us.
For ye remember, brethren, our labor and toil: for laboring night and day, because we would not be chargeable to any of you, we preached to you the gospel of God.
Ye are witnesses, and God also, how holily, and justly, and unblamably we behaved ourselves among you that believe:
As ye know how we exhorted, and comforted, and charged every one of you, as a father doth his children,
That ye would walk worthy of God, who hath called you into his kingdom and glory.
For this cause also we thank God without ceasing, because, when ye received the word of God which ye heard from us, ye received it not as the word of men, but (as it is in truth) the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe.
For ye, brethren, became followers of the churches of God which in Judea are in Christ Jesus: for ye also have suffered like things from your own countrymen, even as they have from the Jews:
Who both killed the Lord Jesus, and their own prophets, and have persecuted us; and they please not God, and are contrary to all men:
Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved, to fill up their sins always: for the wrath is come upon them to the uttermost.
But we, brethren, being taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavored the more abundantly to see your face with great desire.
Wherefore we would have come to you, even I Paul, once and again; but Satan hindered us.
For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?
For ye are our glory and joy.
