In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar, a vision appeared to me, even to me, Daniel, after that which appeared to me at first.
I saw in a vision; and it came to pass, when I saw, that I was in Susa the palatial city, which is in the province of Elam; and I saw in a vision, and I was by the river Ulai.
Then I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, there stood before the river a ram which had two horns; and the two horns were high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher one came up last.
I saw the ram advancing westward, and northward, and southward; and no animals could stand before him, neither was there any who could deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will and magnified himself.
As I was considering, behold, a male goat came from the west over the surface of the whole earth and didn't touch the ground; and the goat had a prominent horn between his eyes.
He came to the ram that had the two horns, which I saw standing before the river, and ran against him in the fury of his power.
I saw him come close to the ram, and he was moved with anger against him, and struck the ram and broke his two horns; and there was no power in the ram to stand before him; but he cast him down to the ground and trampled on him; and there was none who could deliver the ram out of his hand.
The male goat magnified himself exceedingly; and when he was strong, the great horn was broken; and instead of it there came up four prominent horns toward the four winds of the sky.
Out of one of them came forth a little horn, which grew exceeding great, toward the south and toward the east and toward the glorious land.
It grew great, even before the multitude of heaven; and some of the multitude and of the stars it cast down to the ground and trampled on them.
Yes, it magnified itself, even before the prince of the multitude; and it took away from him the continual burnt offering, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down.
And a multitude was given over to it, together with the continual burnt offering by reason of transgression; and it cast down truth to the ground, and it did as it pleased and prospered.
Then I heard a holy one speaking; and another holy one said to that certain one who spoke, "How long shall be the vision concerning the continual burnt offering, and the transgression of desolation, to give both the sanctuary and the multitude to be trodden under foot?"
He said to me, "To two thousand and three hundred evenings and mornings; then the sanctuary shall be cleansed."
It happened when I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision, that I sought to understand it; and behold, there stood before me the appearance of a man.
I heard a man's voice between the banks of the Ulai, which called and said, "Gabriel, give this man an understanding of the vision."
So he came near where I stood; and when he came, I was frightened and fell on my face; but he said to me, "Understand, son of man; for the vision belongs to the time of the end."
Now as he was speaking with me, I fell into a deep sleep with my face toward the ground; but he touched me and set me upright.
He said, "Behold, I will give you knowledge of what shall be in the latter time of the indignation; for it belongs to the appointed time of the end.
The ram, which you saw, had two horns; they are the kings of Media and Persia.
The rough male goat is the kingship of Greece; and the great horn which is between his eyes is the first king.
As for that which was broken, in the place where four stood up, four kingdoms shall rise up out of the nation, but not with his power.
In the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors have reached their fullness, a king of fierce countenance, and understanding dark judgments, shall rise up.
His power shall be mighty, but not by his own power; and he shall destroy astonishingly and shall prosper and do his pleasure; and he shall destroy the mighty ones and the holy people.
Through his tactics, he shall cause craftiness to prosper in his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and in their security he shall destroy many; he shall also rise up against the prince of princes; but he shall be broken without hand.
The vision of the evenings and mornings which has been told is true; but seal up the vision; for it belongs to many days to come."
I, Daniel, fainted and was sick for some days; then I rose up and did the king's business; and I wondered at the vision, but none understood it.
