Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying,
Son of man, let your face be turned to Mount Seir, and be a prophet against it,
And say to it, This is what the Lord has said: See, I am against you, O Mount Seir, and my hand will be stretched out against you, and I will make you a waste and a cause for wonder.
I will make your towns unpeopled and you will be a waste; and you will be certain that I am the Lord.
Because yours has been a hate without end, and you have given up the children of Israel to the power of the sword in the time of their trouble, in the time of the punishment of the end:
For this cause, by my life, says the Lord, because you have been sinning through blood, blood will come after you.
And I will make Mount Seir a cause for wonder and a waste, cutting off from it all comings and goings.
I will make his mountains full of those who have been put to death; in your valleys and in all your water-streams men will be falling by the sword.
I will make you waste for ever, and your towns will be unpeopled: and you will be certain that I am the Lord.
Because you have said, The two nations and the two countries are to be mine, and we will take them for our heritage; though the Lord was there:
For this cause, by my life, says the Lord, I will do to you as you have done in your wrath and in your envy, which you have made clear in your hate for them; and I will make clear to you who I am when you are judged by me.
And you will see that I the Lord have had knowledge of all the bitter things which you have said against the mountains of Israel, saying, They have been made waste, they are given to us to take for our heritage.
And you have made yourselves great against me with your mouths, increasing your words against me; and it has come to my ears.
This is what the Lord has said: Because you were glad over my land when it was a waste, so will I do to you:
You will become a waste, O Mount Seir, and all Edom, even all of it: and you will be certain that I am the Lord.
