Behold, I send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way  before me; and the Lord whom ye seek will suddenly come to his  temple, and the Angel of the covenant, whom ye delight in:  behold, he cometh, saith Jehovah of hosts.
But who shall endure the day of his coming? and who shall  stand when he appeareth? For he will be like a refiner`s fire,  and like fullers` lye.
And he shall sit \as\ a refiner and purifier of silver; and  he will purify the children of Levi, and purge them as gold and  silver; and they shall offer unto Jehovah an oblation in  righteousness.
Then shall the oblation of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant  unto Jehovah, as in the days of old, and as in former years.
And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a  swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the  adulterers, and against the false swearers, and against those  that oppress the hired servant in \his\ wages, the widow and  the fatherless, and that turn aside the stranger \from his  right\, and fear not me, saith Jehovah of hosts.
For I Jehovah change not, and ye, sons of Jacob, are not  consumed.
Since the days of your fathers have ye departed from my  statutes, and have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will  return unto you, saith Jehovah of hosts. But ye say, Wherein  shall we return?
Will a man rob God? But ye rob me. And ye say, Wherein do we  rob thee? \In\ tithes and heave-offerings.
Ye are cursed with a curse; and me ye rob, \even\ this whole  nation.
Bring the whole tithe into the treasure-house, that there  may be food in my house, and prove me now herewith, saith  Jehovah of hosts, if I open not to you the windows of the  heavens, and pour you out a blessing, till there be no place  for it.
And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall  not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine  cast its fruit before the time in the field, saith Jehovah of  hosts.
And all nations shall call you blessed; for ye shall be a  delightsome land, saith Jehovah of hosts.
Your words have been stout against me, saith Jehovah; but  ye say, What have we been speaking against thee?
Ye say, It is vain to serve God; and what profit is it that  we keep his charge, and that we walk mournfully before Jehovah  of hosts?
And now we hold the proud for happy; yea, they that work  wickedness are built up; yea, they tempt God, and they escape.
Then they that feared Jehovah spoke often one to another;  and Jehovah observed \it\, and heard, and a book of remembrance  was written before him for them that feared Jehovah, and that  thought upon his name.
And they shall be unto me a peculiar treasure, saith  Jehovah of hosts, in the day that I prepare; and I will spare  them as a man spareth his own son that serveth him.
And ye shall return and discern between the righteous and  the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth  him not.
