Paul, an Apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God, for proclaiming the promise of the Life which is in Christ Jesus:
To Timothy my dearly-loved child. May grace, mercy and peace be granted to you from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve with a pure conscience--as my forefathers did--that night and day I unceasingly remember you in my prayers,
being always mindful of your tears, and longing to see you that I may be filled with joy.
For I recall the sincere faith which is in your heart--a faith which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and then in your mother Eunice, and, I am fully convinced, now dwells in you also.
For this reason let me remind you to rekindle God's gift which is yours through the laying on of my hands.
For the Spirit which God has given us is not a spirit of cowardice, but one of power and of love and of  sound judgement.
Do not be ashamed then to bear witness for our Lord and for me His prisoner; but rather share suffering with me in the service of the Good News,  strengthened by the power of God.
For He saved us and called us with a holy call, not in accordance with our desserts, but in accordance with His own purpose and the free grace which He bestowed on us in Christ Jesus before the commencement of the Ages,
but which has now been plainly revealed through  the Appearing of our Saviour, Christ Jesus. He has put an end to death and has brought Life and Immortality to light through the Good News,
of which I have been appointed a preacher, Apostle and  teacher, to the Gentiles.
That indeed is the reason why I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, for I know in whom my trust reposes, and I am confident that He has it in His power to keep what I have entrusted to Him safe until that day.
Provide yourself with an  outline of the sound teaching which you have heard from my lips,  and be true to the faith and love which are in Christ Jesus.
That precious treasure which is in your charge, guard through the Holy Spirit who has His home in our hearts.
Of this you are aware, that all the Christians in Roman Asia have deserted me: and among them Phygelus and Hermogenes.
May the Lord show mercy to the  household of Onesiphorus; for many a time he cheered me and he was not ashamed of my chain.
Nay, when he was here in Rome, he took great pains to inquire where I was living, and at last he found me.
(The Lord grant that he may obtain mercy at His hands on that day!) And you yourself well know all the services which he rendered me in Ephesus.
