And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,
Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her abominations,
and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah unto Jerusalem: Thy  birth and thy nativity is of the land of the Canaanite: thy  father was an Amorite, and thy mother a Hittite.
And as for thy nativity, in the day thou wast born thy  navel was not cut, neither wast thou washed in water for  cleansing; thou wast not rubbed with salt at all, nor swaddled  at all.
No eye pitied thee, to do any of these unto thee, to have  compassion upon thee; but thou wast cast out in the open field,  from abhorrence of thy person, in the day that thou wast born.
And I passed by thee, and saw thee weltering in thy blood,  and I said unto thee, in thy blood, Live! yea, I said unto  thee, in thy blood, Live!
I caused thee to multiply, as the bud of the field; and  thou didst increase and grow great, and thou camest to fulness  of beauty; \thy\ breasts were fashioned, and thy hair grew: but  thou wast naked and bare.
And I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, and behold, thy  time was the time of love; and I spread my skirt over thee, and  covered thy nakedness; and I swore unto thee, and entered into  a covenant with thee, saith the Lord Jehovah, and thou becamest  mine.
And I washed thee with water, and thoroughly washed away  thy blood from thee, and I anointed thee with oil;
and I clothed thee with embroidered work, and shod thee  with badgers` skin, and I bound thee about with byssus, and  covered thee with silk.
And I decked thee with ornaments, and I put bracelets upon  thy hands, and a chain on thy neck;
and I put a ring on thy nose, and earrings in thine ears,  and a beautiful crown upon thy head.
Thus wast thou decked with gold and silver, and thy  raiment was byssus, and silk, and embroidered work. Thou didst  eat fine flour, and honey, and oil; and thou becamest  exceedingly beautiful, and thou didst prosper into a kingdom.
And thy fame went forth among the nations for thy beauty;  for it was perfect through my magnificence, which I had put  upon thee, saith the Lord Jehovah.
But thou didst confide in thy beauty, and playedst the  harlot because of thy renown, and pouredst out thy whoredoms on  every one that passed by: his it was.
And of thy garments thou didst take, and madest for  thyself high places decked with divers colours, and didst play  the harlot thereupon: \the like\ hath not come to pass, and  shall be no more.
And thou didst take thy fair jewels of my gold and of my  silver, which I had given thee, and madest to thyself images of  males, and didst commit fornication with them.
And thou tookest thine embroidered garments, and coveredst  them; and thou didst set mine oil and mine incense before them.
And my bread which I had given thee, the fine flour and  the oil and the honey wherewith I fed thee, thou didst even set  it before them for a sweet savour: thus it was, saith the Lord  Jehovah.
And thou didst take thy sons and thy daughters, whom thou  hadst borne unto me, and these didst thou sacrifice unto them,  to be devoured. Were thy whoredoms a small matter,
that thou didst slay my children and give them up in  passing them over to them?
And in all thine abominations and thy whoredoms thou hast  not remembered the days of thy youth, when thou wast naked and  bare, when thou wast weltering in thy blood.
And it came to pass after all thy wickedness (woe, woe  unto thee! saith the Lord Jehovah),
that thou didst also build unto thee a place of  debauchery, and didst make thee a high place in every street:
thou didst build thy high place at every head of the way,  and madest thy beauty to be abhorred, and thou didst open thy  feet to every one that passed by, and multiply thy whoredom.
And thou didst commit fornication with the Egyptians thy  neighbours, great of flesh; and didst multiply thy whoredom to  provoke me to anger.
And behold, I stretched out my hand over thee, and  diminished thine appointed portion; and I gave thee over unto  the will of them that hate thee, the daughters of the  Philistines, who were confounded at thy lewd way.
And thou didst commit fornication with the Assyrians,  because thou wast insatiable; yea, thou didst commit  fornication with them, and yet couldest not be satisfied.
And thou didst multiply thy whoredom with the land of  merchants, Chaldea, and yet thou wast not satisfied herewith.
How weak is thy heart, saith the Lord Jehovah, seeing thou  doest all these \things\, the work of a whorish woman, under no  restraint;
in that thou buildest thy place of debauchery at the head  of every way, and makest thy high place in every street! And  thou hast not been as a harlot, in that thou scornest reward,
O adulterous wife, that taketh strangers instead of her  husband.
They give rewards to all harlots; but thou gavest thy  rewards to all thy lovers, and rewardedst them, that they might  come unto thee on every side for thy whoredoms.
And in thee is the contrary from \other\ women, in thy  whoredoms, in that none followeth thee to commit fornication;  and whereas thou givest a reward, and no reward is given unto  thee, so art thou contrary.
Therefore, O harlot, hear the word of Jehovah.
Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because thy money hath been  poured out, and thy nakedness discovered through thy  fornications with thy lovers, and with all the idols of thine  abominations, and because of the blood of thy children which  thou didst give unto them;
therefore, behold, I will gather all thy lovers with whom  thou hast taken pleasure, and all that thou hast loved, with  all that thou hast hated, -- I will even gather them round  about against thee, and will discover thy nakedness unto them,  that they may see all thy nakedness.
And I will judge thee with the judgments of women that  commit adultery and shed blood; and I will give thee up to the  blood of fury and jealousy;
and I will give thee into their hand, and they shall throw  down thy place of debauchery, and shall break down thy high  places; and they shall strip thee of thy garments, and shall  take thy fair jewels, and leave thee naked and bare.
And they shall bring up an assemblage against thee, and  they shall stone thee with stones, and thrust thee through with  their swords.
And they shall burn thy houses with fire, and execute  judgments upon thee in the sight of many women; and I will  cause thee to cease from being a harlot, and thou also shalt  give no more any reward.
And I will appease my fury against thee, and my jealousy  shall depart from thee; and I will be quiet, and will be no  more angry.
Because thou hast not remembered the days of thy youth,  but hast raged against me in all these \things\, behold,  therefore, I also will recompense thy way upon \thy\ head,  saith the Lord Jehovah, and thou shalt not commit this lewdness  besides all thine abominations.
Behold, every one that useth proverbs shall speak in a  proverb against thee, saying, As the mother, \so is\ her  daughter!
Thou art the daughter of thy mother that loathed her  husband and her children; and thou art the sister of thy  sisters, who loathed their husbands and their children. Your  mother was a Hittite, and your father an Amorite.
And thine elder sister is Samaria that dwelleth at thy  left hand, she and her daughters; and thy younger sister, that  dwelleth at thy right hand, is Sodom and her daughters.
And thou hast not walked in their ways, nor done according  to their abominations; but as though that were a very little,  thou hast been more corrupt than they in all thy ways.
\As\ I live, saith the Lord Jehovah, Sodom thy sister hath  not done, she nor her daughters, as thou hast done, thou and  thy daughters!
Behold, this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom: pride,  fulness of bread, and careless ease was in her and in her  daughters, but she did not strengthen the hand of the poor and  needy.
And they were haughty, and committed abomination before  me, and I took them away when I saw \it\.
And Samaria hath not sinned according to the half of thy  sins; but thou hast multiplied thine abominations more than  they, and hast justified thy sisters by all thine abominations  which thou hast done.
Thou also, who hast judged thy sisters, bear thine own  confusion, because of thy sins in which thou hast acted more  abominably than they: they are more righteous than thou. So be  thou ashamed also, and bear thy confusion, in that thou hast  justified thy sisters.
And I will bring again their captivity, the captivity of  Sodom and her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her  daughters, and the captivity of thy captives in the midst of  them;
that thou mayest bear thy confusion, and mayest be  confounded for all that thou hast done, in that thou comfortest  them.
And thy sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shall return to  their former estate, and Samaria and her daughters shall return  to their former estate; thou also and thy daughters, ye shall  return to your former estate.
Yea, Sodom thy sister was not mentioned by thy mouth in  the day of thy pride,
before thy wickedness was discovered, as at the time of  the reproach of the daughters of Syria, and of all that are  round about her, the daughters of the Philistines, who despise  thee on every side.
Thy lewdness and thine abominations, thou bearest them,  saith Jehovah.
For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will even deal with  thee as thou hast done, who hast despised the oath, and broken  the covenant.
Nevertheless I will remember my covenant with thee in the  days of thy youth, and I will establish unto thee an  everlasting covenant.
And thou shalt remember thy ways, and be confounded, when  thou shalt receive thy sisters who are older than thou,  together with those who are younger than thou; for I will give  them unto thee for daughters, but not by virtue of thy  covenant.
And I will establish my covenant with thee, and thou shalt  know that I \am\ Jehovah;
that thou mayest remember, and be ashamed, and no more  open thy mouth because of thy confusion, when I forgive thee  all that thou hast done, saith the Lord Jehovah.
