And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the twelfth  month, on the first of the month, that the word of Jehovah came  unto me, saying,
Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharaoh king of  Egypt, and say unto him, Thou wast like a young lion among the  nations, and thou wast as a monster in the seas; and thou didst  break forth in thy rivers, and troubledst the waters with thy  feet, and fouledst their rivers.
Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will also spread out my net  over thee with an assemblage of many peoples; and they shall  bring thee up in my net.
And I will leave thee upon the land, I will cast thee forth  upon the open field, and will cause all the fowl of the heavens  to settle upon thee, and I will fill the beasts of the whole  earth with thee.
And I will lay thy flesh upon the mountains, and fill the  valleys with the heap of thy \members\;
and I will water with thy blood the land wherein thou  swimmest, even to the mountains; and the water-courses shall be  full of thee.
And when I shall put thee out, I will cover the heavens,  and make the stars thereof black; I will cover the sun with a  cloud, and the moon shall not give her light.
All the bright lights of the heavens will I make black over  thee, and bring darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord Jehovah.
And I will vex the heart of many peoples, when I bring \the  news of\ thy destruction among the nations, into the countries  that thou hast not known.
And I will make many peoples amazed at thee, and their  kings shall be horribly afraid at thee, when I brandish my  sword before them; and they shall tremble at every moment, each  one for his life, in the day of thy fall.
For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: The sword of the king of  Babylon shall come upon thee.
By the swords of the mighty will I cause thy multitude to  fall: the terrible of the nations are they all: and they shall  spoil the pride of Egypt, and all the multitude thereof shall  be destroyed.
And I will destroy all the beasts thereof, from beside the  great waters; and the foot of man shall not trouble them any  more, nor shall the cloven hoofs of beasts trouble them.
Then will I make their waters clear, and cause their  rivers to run like oil, saith the Lord Jehovah.
When I shall make the land of Egypt a desolation, and the  country shall be left desolate of all that was in it, when I  have smitten all them that dwell therein, then shall they know  that I \am\ Jehovah.
It is a lamentation, and \thus\ they shall lament her: the  daughters of the nations shall say it in lamenting; they shall  say it in lamenting over Egypt and over all her multitude,  saith the Lord Jehovah.
And it came to pass in the twelfth year, on the fifteenth  of the month, the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,
Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them  down, her and the daughters of the famous nations, unto the  lower parts of the earth, with them that go down into the pit.
Whom dost thou surpass in beauty? Go down, and be thou  laid with the uncircumcised.
They shall fall in the midst of them that are slain by the  sword. The sword hath been given: draw her out, and all her  multitudes.
The strong among the mighty, with them that helped him,  shall speak to him out of the midst of Sheol: they are gone  down, they lie still, the uncircumcised, slain by the sword.
There is Asshur and all his assemblage, his graves round  about him: all of them slain, fallen by the sword;
their graves are set in the sides of the pit, and his  assemblage is round about his grave; all of them slain, fallen  by the sword, -- who caused terror in the land of the living.
There is Elam and all her multitude round about her grave,  all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who are gone down  uncircumcised unto the lower parts of the earth, who caused  their terror in the land of the living; yet have they borne  their confusion with them that go down to the pit.
They have set him a bed in the midst of the slain, with  all his multitude: their graves are round about him, all of  them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, though their terror was  caused in the land of the living; and they have borne their  confusion with them that go down to the pit: he is put in the  midst of them that are slain.
There is Meshech, Tubal, and all their multitude, their  graves round about them, all of them uncircumcised, slain by  the sword, though they caused their terror in the land of the  living.
And they lie not with the mighty, \that are\ fallen of the  uncircumcised, who are gone down to Sheol with their weapons of  war; and whose swords are laid under their heads, and whose  iniquities are upon their bones, though they were the terror of  the mighty in the land of the living.
Thou also shalt be broken in the midst of the  uncircumcised, and shalt lie with them that are slain with the  sword.
There is Edom, her kings, and all her princes, who in  their might are laid with them that are slain by the sword:  they lie with the uncircumcised, and with them that go down to  the pit.
There are the princes of the north, all of them, and all  the Zidonians, that are gone down with the slain -- ashamed of  the terror which they caused through their might; and they lie  uncircumcised with them that are slain by the sword, and bear  their confusion with them that go down to the pit.
Pharaoh shall see them, and shall be comforted over all  his multitude, Pharaoh and all his army slain by the sword,  saith the Lord Jehovah.
For I have caused my terror in the land of the living; and  he shall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised, with them  that are slain by the sword, Pharaoh and all his multitude,  saith the Lord Jehovah.
