And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face against Gog, the land of Magog,  the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against  him,
and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against  thee, O Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
And I will turn thee back, and put hooks into thy jaws, and  I will bring thee forth, and all thine army, horses and  horsemen, all of them thoroughly equipped, a great assemblage  with targets and shields, all of them handling swords:
Persia, Cush, and Phut with them, all of them with shield  and helmet;
Gomer, and all his bands; the house of Togarmah from the  uttermost north, and all his bands; -- many peoples with thee.
Be thou prepared, and prepare for thyself thou, and all  thine assemblage that are assembled unto thee, and be thou a  guard unto them.
After many days shalt thou be visited; at the end of years  thou shalt come into the land brought back from the sword \and\  gathered out of many peoples, upon the mountains of Israel  which have been a perpetual waste: but it is brought forth out  from the peoples, and they shall all of them be dwelling in  safety.
And thou shalt ascend, thou shalt come like a storm, thou  shalt be like a cloud to cover the land, thou, and all thy  bands, and many peoples with thee.
Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: It shall even come to pass in  that day that things shall come into thy mind, and thou shalt  think an evil thought;
and thou shalt say, I will go up to the land of unwalled  villages; I will come to them that are in quiet, that dwell in  safety, all of them dwelling without walls, and having neither  bars nor gates,
to seize a spoil, and to take a prey; to turn thy hand  against the waste places that are \now\ inhabited, and against  a people gathered out of the nations, which have gotten cattle  and goods, that dwell in the middle of the land.
Sheba, and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all  the young lions thereof, shall say unto thee, Art thou come to  seize a spoil? hast thou gathered thine assemblage to take a  prey? to carry away silver and gold, to take cattle and goods,  to seize a great spoil?
Therefore prophesy, son of man, and say unto Gog, Thus  saith the Lord Jehovah: In that day when my people Israel  dwelleth in safety, shalt thou not know \it\?
And thou shalt come from thy place out of the uttermost  north, thou and many peoples with thee, all of them riding upon  horses, a great assemblage and a mighty army.
And thou shalt come up against my people Israel as a cloud  to cover the land -- it shall be at the end of days -- and I  will bring thee against my land, that the nations may know me,  when I shall be hallowed in thee, O Gog, before their eyes.
Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Art thou not he of whom I  have spoken in old time through my servants the prophets of  Israel, who prophesied in those days, for \many\ years, that I  would bring thee against them?
And it shall come to pass in that day, in the day when Gog  shall come against the land of Israel, saith the Lord Jehovah,  \that\ my fury shall come up in my face;
for in my jealousy, in the fire of my wrath have I spoken,  Verily in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land  of Israel;
so that the fish of the sea, and the fowl of the heavens,  and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things which  creep upon the earth, and all mankind that are upon the face of  the earth shall shake at my presence; and the mountains shall  be thrown down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall  shall fall to the ground.
And I will call for a sword against him throughout all my  mountains, saith the Lord Jehovah: every man`s sword shall be  against his brother.
And I will enter into judgment with him with pestilence  and with blood; and I will rain upon him, and upon his bands,  and upon the many peoples that are with him, overflowing rain  and great hailstones, fire and brimstone.
And I will magnify myself, and sanctify myself, and I will  be known in the eyes of many nations, and they shall know that  I \am\ Jehovah.
