And he brought me to the temple; and he measured the posts,  six cubits broad on the one side, and six cubits broad on the  other side, the breadth of the tent.
And the breadth of the entry was ten cubits, and the sides  of the entry were five cubits on this side, and five cubits on  that side; and he measured its length, forty cubits, and the  breadth, twenty cubits.
And he went inwards, and measured the post of the entry,  two cubits; and the entry, six cubits; and the breadth of the  entry, seven cubits.
And he measured its length, twenty cubits; and the breadth,  twenty cubits, before the temple: and he said unto me, This is  the most holy \place\.
And he measured the wall of the house, six cubits; and the  breadth of the side-chambers, four cubits, round about the  house on every side.
And the side-chambers were three, chamber over chamber, and  thirty in order; and they entered into the wall which the house  had for the side-chambers round about, that they might have  hold; but they had not hold in the wall of the house.
And for the side-chambers there was an enlarging, and it  went round about \the house\ increasing upward; for the  surrounding of the house increased upward round about the  house; therefore the house had width upward, and so ascended  \from\ the lower \story\ to the upper, by the middle one.
And I saw that the house had an elevation round about: the  foundations of the side-chambers, a full reed, six cubits to  the joint.
The thickness of the wall, which was for the side-chambers  without, was five cubits, as also what was left free along the  building of the side-chambers that pertained to the house.
And between the cells \and the house\ was a width of  twenty cubits round about the house on every side.
And the entry of the side-chambers was toward what was  left free, one entry toward the north, and one entry toward the  south; and the width of the space left free was five cubits  round about.
And the building that was before the separate place at the  end toward the west was seventy cubits broad; and the wall of  the building was five cubits thick round about; and its length  ninety cubits.
And he measured the house: the length a hundred cubits;  and the separate place, and the building, and its walls, the  length a hundred cubits;
and the breadth of the front of the house, and of the  separate places toward the east, a hundred cubits.
And he measured the length of the building before the  separate place, which was at the back of it, with its galleries  on the one side and on the other side, a hundred cubits; and  the inner temple, and the porches of the court.
The thresholds, and the closed windows, and the galleries  round about the three of them (opposite the thresholds it was  wainscoted with wood round about, and from the ground up to the  windows, and the windows were covered),
\and\ above, over the entry, even unto the inner house,  and without, and by all the wall round about, within and  without, \all was\ by measure.
And it was made with cherubim and palm-trees, and a  palm-tree was between cherub and cherub; and the cherub had two  faces:
the face of a man was toward the palm-tree on the one  side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm-tree on the  other side: \so\ was it made upon all the house round about.
From the ground unto above the entry were the cherubim and  the palm-trees made, and \on\ the wall of the temple.
As for the temple, the door-posts were squared; and the  front of the sanctuary had the same appearance.
The altar was of wood, three cubits high, and its length  two cubits; and its corners, and its length, and its walls were  of wood. And he said unto me, This is the table which is before  Jehovah.
And the temple and the sanctuary had two doors.
And the doors had two leaves, two turning-leaves: two for  the one door, and two leaves for the other.
And there were made on them, on the doors of the temple,  cherubim and palm-trees, as there were made upon the walls; and  there was a wooden portal in front of the porch without,
and closed windows and palm-trees on the one side and on  the other side, on the sides of the porch and the side chambers  of the house and the portals.
