And these are the priests and the Levites that went up with  Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah,  Ezra,
Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
Shechaniah, Rehum, Meremoth,
Iddo, Ginnethoi, Abijah,
Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,
Shemaiah, and Joiarib, Jedaiah,
Sallu, Amok, Hilkijah, Jedaiah. These were the chief of the  priests and of their brethren in the days of Jeshua.
And the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah,  Mattaniah, \who was\ over the thanksgiving, he and his  brethren;
and Bakbukiah and Unni, their brethren, were over against  them as watches.
And Jeshua begot Joiakim, and Joiakim begot Eliashib, and  Eliashib begot Joiada,
and Joiada begot Jonathan, and Jonathan begot Jaddua.
And in the days of Joiakim were priests, chief fathers: of  Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;
of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;
of Melicu, Jonathan; of Shebaniah, Joseph;
of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai;
of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;
of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin \and\ Moadiah, Piltai;
of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;
and of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;
of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;
of Hilkijah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethaneel.
of the Levites, the chief fathers were recorded in the  days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and Jaddua, and the  priests, until the reign of Darius the Persian.
The children of Levi, the chief fathers, were recorded in  the book of the chronicles, even until the days of Johanan the  son of Eliashib.
And the chief Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua  the son of Kadmiel, with their brethren over against them, to  praise \and\ to give thanks, according to the commandment of  David the man of God, ward over against ward.
Mattaniah and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon,  Akkub, were doorkeepers keeping the ward at the storehouses of  the gates.
These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua the  son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and  of Ezra the priest, the scribe.
And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought  the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to  Jerusalem, to hold the dedication with gladness, both with  thanksgivings, and with singing, \with\ cymbals, lutes and  harps.
And the children of the singers were assembled, both from  the plain \of Jordan\ round about Jerusalem, and from the  villages of the Netophathites,
also from Beth-Gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba and  Azmaveth; for the singers had built themselves hamlets round  about Jerusalem.
And the priests and the Levites purified themselves; and  they purified the people, and the gates and the wall.
And I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall, and  appointed two great choirs and processions, on the right hand  upon the wall towards the dung-gate.
And after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of  Judah,
and Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam,
Judah and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah,
and \certain\ of the priests` sons with trumpets:  Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of  Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of  Asaph;
and his brethren, Shemaiah, and Azareel, Milalai, Gilalai,  Maai, Nethaneel, and Judah, Hanani, with the musical  instruments of David the man of God; and Ezra the scribe before  them.
And at the fountain-gate, and over against them, they went  up by the stairs of the city of David, at the ascent of the  wall, above the house of David, even to the water-gate  eastward.
And the second choir went in the opposite direction upon  the wall, and I after them, and the half of the people, from  beyond the tower of the furnaces even to the broad wall;
and from above the gate of Ephraim, and above the gate of  the old \wall\, and above the fish-gate, and the tower of  Hananeel, and the tower of Meah, even to the sheep-gate; and  they stood still in the prison-gate.
And both choirs stood in the house of God, and I, and the  half of the rulers with me;
and the priests, Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah,  Elioenai, Zechariah, Hananiah, with trumpets;
and Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Uzzi, and  Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer. And the singers  sang loud; and Jizrahiah was their overseer.
And that day they offered great sacrifices, and rejoiced:  for God had made them rejoice with great joy; and also the  women and the children rejoiced. And the joy of Jerusalem was  heard even afar off.
And at that time men were appointed over the chambers of  the treasures for the heave-offerings, for the first-fruits,  and for the tithes, to gather into them, out of the fields of  the cities, the portions assigned by the law for the priests  and the Levites; for Judah rejoiced over the priests, and over  the Levites that waited.
And, with the singers and the doorkeepers, they kept the  ward of their God, and the ward of the purification, according  to the commandment of David \and\ of Solomon his son.
For of old, in the days of David and Asaph, there were the  chiefs of the singers, and songs of praise and thanksgivings to  God.
And all Israel, in the days of Zerubbabel and in the days  of Nehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the  doorkeepers, every day what was needed, and they consecrated  things for the Levites; and the Levites consecrated for the  children of Aaron.
