And it came to pass that when Sanballat heard that we built  the wall, he was angry and very indignant, and mocked the Jews.
And he spoke before his brethren and the army of Samaria,  and said, What do these feeble Jews? shall they be permitted to  go on? Will they offer sacrifices? Will they finish in a day?  Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of rubbish, when  they are burned?
And Tobijah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, Even that  which they build, if a fox went up, it would break down their  stone wall. --
Hear, our God, for we are despised, and turn their reproach  upon their own head, and give them for a prey in a land of  captivity!
And cover not their iniquity, and let not their sin be  blotted out from before thee; for they have provoked the  builders.
But we built the wall; and all the wall was joined together  to the half thereof; for the people had a mind to work.
And it came to pass, when Sanballat, and Tobijah, and the  Arabians, and the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites heard that the  walls of Jerusalem were being repaired, that the breaches began  to be stopped, then they were very wroth,
and conspired all of them together to come to fight against  Jerusalem, and to hinder it.
Then we prayed to our God, and set a watch against them day  and night, because of them.
And Judah said, The strength of the bearers of burdens  faileth, and there is much rubbish; so that we are not able to  build at the wall.
And our adversaries said, They shall not know, neither see,  till we come into the midst of them and kill them, and put an  end to the work.
And it came to pass that when the Jews that dwelt by them  came and told us so ten times, from all the places whence they  returned to us,
I set in the lower places behind the wall in exposed  places, I even set the people, according to their families,  with their swords, their spears and their bows.
And I looked, and rose up, and said to the nobles, and to  the rulers, and to the rest of the people, Be not afraid of  them: remember the Lord who is great and terrible, and fight  for your brethren, your sons and your daughters, your wives and  your houses.
And it came to pass that when our enemies heard that it was  known to us, and that God had defeated their counsel, we  returned all of us to the wall, every one to his work.
And from that time forth the half of my servants wrought in  the work, and the other half of them held the spears, and the  shields, and the bows, and the corslets; and the captains were  behind all the house of Judah.
They that built on the wall, and they that bore burdens,  with those that loaded, wrought in the work with one hand, and  with the other they held a weapon.
And the builders had every one his sword girded by his  side, and built. And he that sounded the trumpet was by me.
And I said to the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the  rest of the people, The work is great and extended, and we are  scattered upon the wall, one far from another:
in what place ye hear the sound of the trumpet, thither  shall ye assemble to us; our God will fight for us.
And we laboured in the work; and half of them held the  spears from the rising of the dawn till the stars appeared.
Likewise at the same time I said to the people, Let every  one with his servant lodge within Jerusalem, that in the night  they may be a guard to us, and \be for\ labour in the day.
And neither I, nor my brethren, nor my servants, nor the  men of the guard that followed me, none of us put off our  garments: every one had his weapon on his right side.
