And it came to pass when the wall was built, and I had set  up the doors, that the doorkeepers and the singers and the  Levites were appointed.
And I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the  citadel, charge over Jerusalem; for he was a faithful man and  feared God above many.
And I said to them that the gates of Jerusalem should not be  opened until the sun was hot, and that they should shut the  doors and bar them while they stood by; and that there should  be appointed watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one  in his watch, and every one over against his house.
Now the city was large and great; but the people in it were  few, and no houses were built.
And my God put into my heart to gather together the nobles,  and the rulers, and the people, for registration by genealogy.  And I found a genealogical register of those that had come up  at the first, and I found written in it:
These are the children of the province that went up out of  the captivity of those that had been carried away, whom  Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away, and who  came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one to his city;
those who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah,  Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum,  Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred and  seventy-two.
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy-two.
The children of Arah, six hundred and fifty-two.
The children of Pahath-Moab, of the children of Jeshua and  Joab, two thousand eight hundred and eighteen.
The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred and  fifty-four.
The children of Zattu, eight hundred and forty-five.
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty.
The children of Binnui, six hundred and forty-eight.
The children of Bebai, six hundred and twenty-eight.
The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred and  twenty-two.
The children of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty-seven.
The children of Bigvai, two thousand and sixty-seven.
The children of Adin, six hundred and fifty-five.
The children of Ater of \the family of\ Hezekiah,  ninety-eight.
The children of Hashum, three hundred and twenty-eight.
The children of Bezai, three hundred and twenty-four.
The children of Hariph, a hundred and twelve.
The children of Gibeon, ninety-five.
The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, a hundred and  eighty-eight.
The men of Anathoth, a hundred and twenty-eight.
The men of Beth-azmaveth, forty-two.
The men of Kirjath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven  hundred and forty-three.
The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred and twenty-one.
The men of Michmas, a hundred and twenty-two.
The men of Bethel and Ai, a hundred and twenty-three.
The men of the other Nebo, fifty-two.
The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred and  fifty-four.
The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty.
The children of Jericho, three hundred and forty-five.
The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred and  twenty-one.
The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and  thirty.
The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of  Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy-three.
The children of Immer, a thousand and fifty-two.
The children of Pashhur, a thousand two hundred and  forty-seven.
The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
The Levites: the children of Jeshua \and\ of Kadmiel, of  the children of Hodvah, seventy-four.
The singers: the children of Asaph, a hundred and  forty-eight.
The doorkeepers: the children of Shallum, the children of  Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the  children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, a hundred and  thirty-eight.
The Nethinim: the children of Ziha, the children of  Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth,
the children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of  Padon,
the children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the  children of Salmai,
the children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children  of Gahar,
the children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children  of Nekoda,
the children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children  of Phaseah,
the children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children  of Nephishesim,
the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the  children of Harhur,
the children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the  children of Harsha,
the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the  children of Thamah,
the children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.
The children of Solomon`s servants: the children of Sotai,  the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida,
the children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children  of Giddel,
the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the  children of Pochereth-Hazzebaim, the children of Amon.
All the Nethinim, and the children of Solomon`s servants,  three hundred and ninety-two.
And these are they that went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha,  Cherub-Addon and Immer; but they could not shew their father`s  house, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel.
The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobijah, the  children of Nekoda, six hundred and forty-two.
And of the priests: the children of Hobaiah, the children  of Koz, the children of Barzillai, who took a wife of the  daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite and was called after their  name.
These sought their genealogical register, but it was not  found; therefore were they, as polluted, removed from the  priesthood.
And the Tirshatha said to them that they should not eat of  the most holy things, till there stood up the priest with Urim  and Thummim.
The whole congregation together was forty-two thousand  three hundred and sixty,
besides their servants and their maids, of whom there were  seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven; and they had two  hundred and forty-five singing-men and singing-women.
Their horses were seven hundred and thirty-six; their  mules, two hundred and forty-five;
the camels, four hundred and thirty-five; the asses, six  thousand seven hundred and twenty.
And some of the chief fathers gave to the work. The  Tirshatha gave to the treasure a thousand darics of gold, fifty  basons, five hundred and thirty priests` coats.
And \some\ of the chief fathers gave to the treasure of the  work twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand two  hundred pounds of silver.
And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty  thousand darics of gold, and two thousand pounds of silver, and  sixty-seven priests` coats.
And the priests, and the Levites, and the doorkeepers, and  the singers, and \some\ of the people, and the Nethinim, and  all Israel, dwelt in their cities. And when the seventh month  came, and the children of Israel were in their cities,
