Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Make you two trumpets of silver; of beaten work shall you make them: and you shall use them for the calling of the congregation, and for the journeying of the camps.
When they shall blow them, all the congregation shall gather themselves to you at the door of the tent of meeting.
If they blow but one, then the princes, the heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themselves to you.
When you blow an alarm, the camps that lie on the east side shall take their journey.
When you blow an alarm the second time, the camps that lie on the south side shall take their journey: they shall blow an alarm for their journeys.
But when the assembly is to be gathered together, you shall blow, but you shall not sound an alarm.
The sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets; and they shall be to you for a statute forever throughout your generations.
When you go to war in your land against the adversary who oppresses you, then you shall sound an alarm with the trumpets; and you shall be remembered before Yahweh your God, and you shall be saved from your enemies.
Also in the day of your gladness, and in your set feasts, and in the beginnings of your months, you shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace-offerings; and they shall be to you for a memorial before your God: I am Yahweh your God.
It happened in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, that the cloud was taken up from over the tent of the testimony.
The children of Israel set forward according to their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud abode in the wilderness of Paran.
They first took their journey according to the commandment of Yahweh by Moses.
In the first \place\ the standard of the camp of the children of Judah set forward according to their hosts: and over his host was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethanel the son of Zuar.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.
The tent was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari, who bore the tent, set forward.
The standard of the camp of Reuben set forward according to their hosts: and over his host was Elizur the son of Shedeur.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
The Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary: and \the others\ did set up the tent against their coming.
The standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set forward according to their hosts: and over his host was Elishama the son of Ammihud.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
The standard of the camp of the children of Dan, which was the rearward of all the camps, set forward according to their hosts: and over his host was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ochran.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.
Thus were the travels of the children of Israel according to their hosts; and they set forward.
Moses said to Hobab, the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses' father-in-law, We are journeying to the place of which Yahweh said, I will give it you: come you with us, and we will do you good; for Yahweh has spoken good concerning Israel.
He said to him, I will not go; but I will depart to my own land, and to my relatives.
He said, Don't leave us, please; because you know how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and you shall be to us instead of eyes.
It shall be, if you go with us, yes, it shall be, that whatever good Yahweh shall do to us, the same will we do to you.
They set forward from the Mount of Yahweh three days' journey; and the ark of the covenant of Yahweh went before them three days' journey, to seek out a resting-place for them.
The cloud of Yahweh was over them by day, when they set forward from the camp.
It happened, when the ark set forward, that Moses said, Rise up, Yahweh, and let your enemies be scattered; and let those who hate you flee before you.
When it rested, he said, Return, Yahweh, to the ten thousands of the thousands of Israel.
