Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
The children of Israel shall encamp every man by his own standard, with the ensigns of their fathers' houses: over against the tent of meeting shall they encamp round about.
Those who encamp on the east side toward the sunrise shall be they of the standard of the camp of Judah, according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Judah shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
His host, and those who were numbered of them, were seventy-four thousand six hundred.
Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Issachar: and the prince of the children of Issachar shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar.
His host, and those who were numbered of it, were fifty-four thousand four hundred.
The tribe of Zebulun: and the prince of the children of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon.
His host, and those who were numbered of it, were fifty-seven thousand four hundred.
All who were numbered of the camp of Judah were one hundred eighty-six thousand four hundred, according to their hosts. They shall set forth first.
On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Reuben shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur.
His host, and those who were numbered of it, were forty-six thousand five hundred.
Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Simeon: and the prince of the children of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
His host, and those who were numbered of them, were fifty-nine thousand three hundred.
The tribe of Gad: and the prince of the children of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel.
His host, and those who were numbered of them, were forty-five thousand six hundred fifty.
All who were numbered of the camp of Reuben were one hundred fifty-one thousand four hundred fifty, according to their hosts. They shall set forth second.
Then the tent of meeting shall set forward, with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps: as they encamp, so shall they set forward, every man in his place, by their standards.
On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Ephraim shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud.
His host, and those who were numbered of them, were forty thousand five hundred.
Next to him shall be the tribe of Manasseh: and the prince of the children of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
His host, and those who were numbered of them, were thirty-two thousand and two hundred.
The tribe of Benjamin: and the prince of the children of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni.
His host, and those who were numbered of them, were thirty-five thousand four hundred.
All who were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were one hundred eight thousand one hundred, according to their hosts. They shall set forth third.
On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Dan shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
His host, and those who were numbered of them, were sixty-two thousand seven hundred.
Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Asher: and the prince of the children of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ochran.
His host, and those who were numbered of them, were forty-one thousand and five hundred.
The tribe of Naphtali: and the prince of the children of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan.
His host, and those who were numbered of them, were fifty-three thousand four hundred.
All who were numbered of the camp of Dan were one hundred fifty-seven thousand six hundred. They shall set forth hindmost by their standards.
These are those who were numbered of the children of Israel by their fathers' houses: all who were numbered of the camps according to their hosts were six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty.
But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as Yahweh commanded Moses.
Thus did the children of Israel; according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so they encamped by their standards, and so they set forward, everyone by their families, according to their fathers' houses.
