Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the children of Israel, and tell them, My offering, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a sweet savor to me, shall you observe to offer to me in their due season.
You shall tell them, This is the offering made by fire which you shall offer to Yahweh: he-lambs a year old without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt offering.
The one lamb shall you offer in the morning, and the other lamb shall you offer at even;
and the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil.
It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in Mount Sinai for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to Yahweh.
The drink-offering of it shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shall you pour out a drink-offering of strong drink to Yahweh.
The other lamb shall you offer at even: as the meal-offering of the morning, and as the drink-offering of it, you shall offer it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Yahweh.
On the Sabbath day two he-lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts \of an ephah\ of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, and the drink-offering of it:
this is the burnt offering of every Sabbath, besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering of it.
In the beginnings of your months you shall offer a burnt offering to Yahweh: two young bulls, and one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without blemish;
and three tenth parts \of an ephah\ of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for each bull; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for the one ram;
and a tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal-offering to every lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to Yahweh.
Their drink-offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
One male goat for a sin-offering to Yahweh; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink-offering of it.
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Yahweh's Passover.
On the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
In the first day shall be a holy convocation: you shall do no servile work;
but you shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt offering to Yahweh: two young bulls, and one ram, and seven he-lambs a year old; they shall be to you without blemish;
and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil: three tenth parts shall you offer for a bull, and two tenth parts for the ram;
a tenth part shall you offer for every lamb of the seven lambs;
and one male goat for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you.
You shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
After this manner you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Yahweh: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink-offering of it.
On the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation: you shall do no servile work.
Also in the day of the first-fruits, when you offer a new meal-offering to Yahweh in your \feast of\ weeks, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no servile work;
but you shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savor to Yahweh: two young bulls, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old;
and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for each bull, two tenth parts for the one ram,
a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
one male goat, to make atonement for you.
Besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal-offering of it, you shall offer them (they shall be to you without blemish), and their drink-offerings.
