Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the children of Israel, that they put out of the camp every leper, and everyone who has an issue, and whoever is unclean by the dead:
both male and female shall you put out, outside of the camp shall you put them; that they not defile their camp, in the midst whereof I dwell.
The children of Israel did so, and put them out outside of the camp; as Yahweh spoke to Moses, so did the children of Israel.
Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, When a man or woman shall commit any sin that men commit, so as to trespass against Yahweh, and that soul shall be guilty;
then he shall confess his sin which he has done: and he shall make restitution for his guilt in full, and add to it the fifth part of it, and give it to him in respect of whom he has been guilty.
But if the man have no kinsman to whom restitution may be made for the guilt, the restitution for guilt which is made to Yahweh shall be the priest's; besides the ram of the atonement, whereby atonement shall be made for him.
Every heave-offering of all the holy things of the children of Israel, which they present to the priest, shall be his.
Every man's holy things shall be his: whatever any man gives the priest, it shall be his.
Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, If any man's wife go aside, and commit a trespass against him,
and a man lie with her carnally, and it be hid from the eyes of her husband, and be kept close, and she is defiled, and there be no witness against her, and she isn't taken in the act;
and the spirit of jealousy come on him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she be defiled: or if the spirit of jealousy comes on him, and he is jealous of his wife, and she isn't defiled:
then shall the man bring his wife to the priest, and shall bring her offering for her, the tenth part of an ephah of barley meal; he shall pour no oil on it, nor put frankincense thereon; for it is a meal-offering of jealousy, a meal-offering of memorial, bringing iniquity to memory.
The priest shall bring her near, and set her before Yahweh:
and the priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel; and of the dust that is on the floor of the tent the priest shall take, and put it into the water.
The priest shall set the woman before Yahweh, and let the hair of the woman's head go loose, and put the meal-offering of memorial in her hands, which is the meal-offering of jealousy: and the priest shall have in his hand the water of bitterness that causes the curse.
The priest shall cause her to swear, and shall tell the woman, If no man has lain with you, and if you haven't gone aside to uncleanness, being under your husband, be you free from this water of bitterness that causes the curse.
But if you have gone aside, being under your husband, and if you be defiled, and some man have lain with you besides your husband:
then the priest shall cause the woman to swear with the oath of cursing, and the priest shall tell the woman, Yahweh make you a curse and an oath among your people, when Yahweh does make your thigh to fall away, and your body to swell;
and this water that causes the curse shall go into your bowels, and make your body to swell, and your thigh to fall away. The woman shall say, Amen, Amen.
The priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall blot them out into the water of bitterness:
and he shall make the woman drink the water of bitterness that causes the curse; and the water that causes the curse shall enter into her \and become\ bitter.
The priest shall take the meal-offering of jealousy out of the woman's hand, and shall wave the meal-offering before Yahweh, and bring it to the altar:
and the priest shall take a handful of the meal-offering, as the memorial of it, and burn it on the altar, and afterward shall make the woman drink the water.
When he has made her drink the water, then it shall happen, if she be defiled, and have committed a trespass against her husband, that the water that causes the curse shall enter into her \and become\ bitter, and her body shall swell, and her thigh shall fall away: and the woman shall be a curse among her people.
If the woman isn't defiled, but be clean; then she shall be free, and shall conceive seed.
This is the law of jealousy, when a wife, being under her husband, goes aside, and is defiled;
or when the spirit of jealousy comes on a man, and he is jealous of his wife; then shall he set the woman before Yahweh, and the priest shall execute on her all this law.
The man shall be free from iniquity, and that woman shall bear her iniquity.
