Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, When either man or woman shall make a special vow, the vow of a Nazirite, to separate himself to Yahweh,
he shall separate himself from wine and strong drink; he shall drink no vinegar of wine, or vinegar of strong drink, neither shall he drink any juice of grapes, nor eat fresh grapes or dried.
All the days of his separation shall he eat nothing that is made of the grape-vine, from the kernels even to the husk.
All the days of his vow of separation there shall no razor come on his head: until the days be fulfilled, in which he separates himself to Yahweh, he shall be holy; he shall let the locks of the hair of his head grow long.
All the days that he separates himself to Yahweh he shall not come near to a dead body.
He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his mother, for his brother, or for his sister, when they die; because his separation to God is on his head.
All the days of his separation he is holy to Yahweh.
If any man die very suddenly beside him, and he defile the head of his separation; then he shall shave his head in the day of his cleansing, on the seventh day shall he shave it.
On the eighth day he shall bring two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, to the priest, to the door of the tent of meeting:
and the priest shall offer one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt offering, and make atonement for him, for that he sinned by reason of the dead, and shall make his head holy that same day.
He shall separate to Yahweh the days of his separation, and shall bring a he-lamb a year old for a trespass-offering; but the former days shall be void, because his separation was defiled.
This is the law of the Nazirite, when the days of his separation are fulfilled: he shall be brought to the door of the tent of meeting:
and he shall offer his offering to Yahweh, one he-lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering, and one ewe-lamb a year old without blemish for a sin-offering, and one ram without blemish for peace-offerings,
and a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and their meal-offering, and their drink-offerings.
The priest shall present them before Yahweh, and shall offer his sin-offering, and his burnt offering:
and he shall offer the ram for a sacrifice of peace-offerings to Yahweh, with the basket of unleavened bread: the priest shall offer also the meal-offering of it, and the drink-offering of it.
The Nazirite shall shave the head of his separation at the door of the tent of meeting, and shall take the hair of the head of his separation, and put it on the fire which is under the sacrifice of peace-offerings.
The priest shall take the boiled shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them on the hands of the Nazirite, after he has shaved \the head of\ his separation;
and the priest shall wave them for a wave-offering before Yahweh; this is holy for the priest, together with the wave-breast and heave-thigh: and after that the Nazirite may drink wine.
This is the law of the Nazirite who vows, \and of\ his offering to Yahweh for his separation, besides that which he is able to get: according to his vow which he vows, so he must do after the law of his separation.
Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, On this wise you shall bless the children of Israel: you shall tell them,
Yahweh bless you, and keep you:
Yahweh make his face to shine on you, and be gracious to you:
Yahweh lift up his face toward you, and give you peace.
So shall they put my name on the children of Israel; and I will bless them.
