And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
and he said unto Aaron, Take thee a calf of the herd for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering, without blemish, and offer them before Jehovah.
And unto the children of Israel thou shalt speak, saying, Take ye a he-goat for a sin-offering; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt-offering;
and an ox and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before Jehovah; and a meal-offering mingled with oil: for to-day Jehovah appeareth unto you.
And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tent of meeting: and all the congregation drew near and stood before Jehovah.
And Moses said, This is the thing which Jehovah commanded that ye should do: and the glory of Jehovah shall appear unto you.
And Moses said unto Aaron, Draw near unto the altar, and offer thy sin-offering, and thy burnt-offering, and make atonement for thyself, and for the people; and offer the oblation of the people, and make atonement for them; as Jehovah commanded.
So Aaron drew near unto the altar, and slew the calf of the sin-offering, which was for himself.
And the sons of Aaron presented the blood unto him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar:
but the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul from the liver of the sin-offering, he burnt upon the altar; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And the flesh and the skin he burnt with fire without the camp.
And he slew the burnt-offering; and Aaron`s sons delivered unto him the blood, and he sprinkled it upon the altar round about.
And they delivered the burnt-offering unto him, piece by piece, and the head: and he burnt them upon the altar.
And he washed the inwards and the legs, and burnt them upon the burnt-offering on the altar.
And he presented the people`s oblation, and took the goat of the sin-offering which was for the people, and slew it, and offered it for sin, as the first.
And he presented the burnt-offering, and offered it according to the ordinance.
And he presented the meal-offering, and filled his hand therefrom, and burnt it upon the altar, besides the burnt-offering of the morning.
He slew also the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron`s sons delivered unto him the blood, which he sprinkled upon the altar round about,
and the fat of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covereth \the inwards\, and the kidneys, and the caul of the liver:
and they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar:
and the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave-offering before Jehovah; as Moses commanded.
And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin-offering, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings.
And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of Jehovah appeared unto all the people.
And there came forth fire from before Jehovah, and consumed upon the altar the burnt-offering and the fat: and when all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.
