Now these are the names of the sons of Israel who came into Egypt; every man and his family came with Jacob.
Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah;
Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin;
Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher.
All the offspring of Jacob were seventy persons: and Joseph had come to Egypt before them.
Then Joseph came to his end, and all his brothers, and all that generation.
And the children of Israel were fertile, increasing very greatly in numbers and in power; and the land was full of them.
Now a new king came to power in Egypt, who had no knowledge of Joseph.
And he said to his people, See, the people of Israel are greater in number and in power than we are:
Let us take care for fear that their numbers may become even greater, and if there is a war, they may be joined with those who are against us, and make an attack on us, and go up out of the land.
So they put overseers of forced work over them, in order to make their strength less by the weight of their work. And they made store-towns for Pharaoh, Pithom and Raamses.
But the more cruel they were to them, the more their number increased, till all the land was full of them. And the children of Israel were hated by the Egyptians.
And they gave the children of Israel even harder work to do:
And made their lives bitter with hard work, making building-material and bricks, and doing all sorts of work in the fields under the hardest conditions.
And the king of Egypt said to the Hebrew women who gave help at the time of childbirth (the name of the one was Shiphrah and the name of the other Puah),
When you are looking after the Hebrew women in childbirth, if it is a son you are to put him to death; but if it is a daughter, she may go on living.
But the women had the fear of God, and did not do as the king of Egypt said, but let the male children go on living.
And the king of Egypt sent for the women, and said to them, Why have you done this, and let the male children go on living?
And they said to Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women, for they are strong, and the birth takes place before we come to them.
And the blessing of God was on these women: and the people were increased in number and became very strong.
And because the women who took care of the Hebrew mothers had the fear of God, he gave them families.
And Pharaoh gave orders to all his people, saying, Every son who comes to birth is to be put into the river, but every daughter may go on living.
xistis mittamus viros qui considerent terram et renuntient per quod iter debeamus ascendere et ad quas pergere civitates
cumque mihi sermo placuisset misi e vobis duodecim viros singulos de tribubus suis
qui cum perrexissent et ascendissent in montana venerunt usque ad vallem Botri et considerata terra
sumentes de fructibus eius ut ostenderent ubertatem adtulerunt ad nos atque dixerunt bona est terra quam Dominus Deus noster daturus est nobis
et noluistis ascendere sed increduli ad sermonem Domini Dei nostri
murmurati estis in tabernaculis vestris atque dixistis odit nos Dominus et idcirco eduxit nos de terra Aegypti ut traderet in manu Amorrei atque deleret
quo ascendemus nuntii terruerunt cor nostrum dicentes maxima multitudo est et nobis in statura procerior urbes magnae et ad caelum usque munitae filios Enacim vidimus ibi
et dixi vobis nolite metuere nec timeatis eos
Dominus Deus qui ductor est vester pro vobis ipse pugnabit sicut fecit in Aegypto videntibus cunctis
et in solitudine ipse vidisti portavit te Dominus Deus tuus ut solet homo gestare parvulum filium suum in omni via per quam ambulasti donec veniretis ad locum istum
et nec sic quidem credidistis Domino Deo vestro
qui praecessit vos in via et metatus est locum in quo tentoria figere deberetis nocte ostendens vobis iter per ignem et die per columnam nubis
cumque audisset Dominus vocem sermonum vestrorum iratus iuravit et ait
non videbit quispiam de hominibus generationis huius pessimae terram bonam quam sub iuramento pollicitus sum patribus vestris
praeter Chaleb filium Iepphonne ipse enim videbit eam et ipsi dabo terram quam calcavit et filiis eius quia secutus est Dominum
nec miranda indignatio in populum cum mihi quoque iratus Dominus propter vos dixerit nec tu ingredieris illuc
sed Iosue filius Nun minister tuus ipse intrabit pro te hunc exhortare et robora et ipse terram sorte dividat Israheli
parvuli vestri de quibus dixistis quod captivi ducerentur et filii qui hodie boni ac mali ignorant distantiam ipsi ingredientur et ipsis dabo terram et possidebunt eam
vos autem revertimini et abite in solitudinem per viam maris Rubri
et respondistis mihi peccavimus Domino ascendemus atque pugnabimus sicut praecepit Dominus Deus noster cumque instructi armis pergeretis in montem
ait mihi Dominus dic ad eos nolite ascendere neque pugnetis non enim sum vobiscum ne cadatis coram inimicis vestris
locutus sum et non audistis sed adversantes imperio Domini et tumentes superbia ascendistis in montem
itaque egressus Amorreus qui habitabat in montibus et obviam veniens persecutus est vos sicut solent apes persequi et cecidit de Seir usque Horma
cumque reversi ploraretis coram Domino non audivit vos nec voci vestrae voluit adquiescere
sedistis ergo in Cadesbarne multo tempore
