So all Israel was listed by their families; and, truly, they are recorded in the book of the kings of Israel. And Judah was taken away as prisoners to Babylon because of their sin.
Now the first to take up their heritage in their towns were: Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the Nethinim.
And in Jerusalem there were living some of the sons of Judah, and of Benjamin, and of Ephraim and Manasseh;
Uthai, the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the sons of Perez, the son of Judah.
And of the Shilonites: Asaiah the oldest, and his sons.
And of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel, and their brothers, six hundred and ninety.
And of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu, the son of Meshullam, Judah, the son of Hassenuah,
And Ibneiah, the son of Jeroham, and Elah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;
And their brothers, in the list of their generations, nine hundred and fifty-six. All these men were heads of families, listed by the names of their fathers.
And of the priests: Jedaiah and Jehoiarib and Jachin
And Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God;
And Adaiah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah, and Maasai, the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;
And their brothers, heads of their families, a thousand and seven hundred and sixty: able men, doing the work of the house of God.
And of the Levites: Shemaiah, the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;
And Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah, the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph;
And Obadiah, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah, the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who were living in the small towns of the Netophathites.
And the door-keepers: Shallum and Akkub and Talmon and Ahiman and their brothers: Shallum was the chief.
Up till then they had been at the king's door to the east. They were door-keepers for the tents of the sons of Levi.
And Shallum, the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brothers, of his family, the Korahites, were responsible for everything which had to be done in connection with the order of worship, keepers of the doors of the Tent; their fathers had had the care of the tents of the Lord, being keepers of the doorway.
In the past Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, had been ruler over them; may the Lord be with him!
Zechariah, the son of Meshelemiah, was keeper of the door of the Tent of meeting.
There were two hundred and twelve whose business it was to keep the doorway. These were listed by families in the country places where they were living, whom David and Samuel the seer put in their responsible positions.
So they and their sons had the care of the doors of the house of the Lord, the house of the Tent, as watchers.
There were keepers of the doors on the four sides, to the east, west, north, and south.
And their brothers, in the country places where they were living, were to come in every seven days to be with them from time to time.
For the four chief door-keepers, who were Levites, had a special position, looking after the rooms and the store-houses of the house of God.
Their sleeping-rooms were round the house of God, for they had the care of it, and were responsible for opening it morning by morning.
Certain of them had the care of the vessels used in worship, to keep an account of them when they came in and when they were taken out again.
And some of them were responsible for the holy things and for the vessels of the holy place, and the meal and the wine and the oil and the perfume and the spices.
And some of the sons of the priests were responsible for crushing the spices.
And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, the oldest son of Shallum the Korahite, was responsible for cooking the flat cakes.
And some of their brothers, sons of the Kohathites, were responsible for the holy bread which was put in order before the Lord, to get it ready every Sabbath.
And these were those who had the ordering of the music and songs, heads of families of the Levites, who were living in the rooms, and were free from other work, for their work went on day and night.
These were heads of families of the Levites in their generations, chief men; they were living at Jerusalem.
And in Gibeon was living the father of Gibeon, Jeiel, whose wife's name was Maacah;
And Abdon his oldest son, and Zur and Kish and Baal and Ner and Nadab
And Gedor and Ahio and Zechariah and Mikloth
Mikloth was the father of Shimeam. They were living with their brothers in Jerusalem opposite their brothers.
And Ner was the father of Kish; and Kish was the father of Saul; and Saul was the father of Jonathan and Malchi-shua and Abinadab and Eshbaal.
And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal was the father of Micah.
And the sons of Micah: Pithon and Melech and Tahrea and Ahaz.
And Ahaz was the father of Jarah; and Jarah was the father of Alemeth and Azmaveth and Zimri; and Zimri was the father of Moza.
And Moza was the father of Binea; and Rephaiah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
And Azel had five sons, whose names are: Azrikam, his oldest son, and Ishmael and Sheariah and Obadiah and Hanan: these were the sons of Azel.
