Why are times not stored up by the Ruler of all, and why do those who have knowledge of him not see his days?
The landmarks are changed by evil men, they violently take away flocks, together with their keepers.
They send away the ass of him who has no father, they take the widow's ox for debt.
The crushed are turned out of the way; all the poor of the earth go into a secret place together.
Like asses in the waste land they go out to their work, looking for food with care; from the waste land they get bread for their children.
They get mixed grain from the field, and they take away the late fruit from the vines of those who have wealth.
They take their rest at night without clothing, and have no cover in the cold.
They are wet with the rain of the mountains, and get into the cracks of the rock for cover.
The child without a father is forced from its mother's breast, and they take the young children of the poor for debt.
Others go about without clothing, and though they have no food, they get in the grain from the fields.
Between the lines of olive-trees they make oil; though they have no drink, they are crushing out the grapes.
From the town come sounds of pain from those who are near death, and the soul of the wounded is crying out for help; but God does not take note of their prayer.
Then there are those who are haters of the light, who have no knowledge of its ways, and do not go in them.
He who is purposing death gets up before day, so that he may put to death the poor and those in need.
And the man whose desire is for the wife of another is waiting for the evening, saying, No eye will see me; and he puts a cover on his face. And in the night the thief goes about;
In the dark he makes holes in the walls of houses: in the daytime they are shutting themselves up, they have no knowledge of the light.
For the middle of the night is as morning to them, they are not troubled by the fear of the dark.
They go quickly on the face of the waters; their heritage is cursed in the earth; the steps of the crusher of grapes are not turned to their vine-garden.
Snow waters become dry with the heat: so do sinners go down into the underworld.
The public place of his town has no more knowledge of him, and his name has gone from the memory of men: he is rooted up like a dead tree.
He is not kind to the widow, and he has no pity for her child.
But God by his power gives long life to the strong; he gets up again, though he has no hope of life.
He takes away his fear of danger and gives him support; and his eyes are on his ways.
For a short time they are lifted up; then they are gone; they are made low, they are pulled off like fruit, and like the heads of grain they are cut off.
And if it is not so, now, who will make it clear that my words are false, and that what I say is of no value?
