And Job said in answer to the Lord,
I see that you are able to do every thing, and to give effect to all your designs.
Who is this who makes dark the purpose of God by words without knowledge? For I have been talking without knowledge about wonders not to be searched out.
Give ear to me, and I will say what is in my mind; I will put questions to you, and you will give me the answers.
Word of you had come to my ears, but now my eye has seen you.
For this cause I give witness that what I said is false, and in sorrow I take my seat in the dust.
And it came about, after he had said these words to Job, that the Lord said to Eliphaz the Temanite, I am very angry with you and your two friends, because you have not said what is right about me, as my servant Job has.
And now, take seven oxen and seven sheep, and go to my servant Job, and give a burned offering for yourselves, and my servant Job will make prayer for you, that I may not send punishment on you; because you have not said what is right about me, as my servant Job has.
And Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite, went and did as the Lord had said. And the Lord gave ear to Job.
And the Lord made up to Job for all his losses, after he had made prayer for his friends: and all Job had before was increased by the Lord twice as much.
And all his brothers and sisters, and his friends of earlier days, came and took food with him in his house; and made clear their grief for him, and gave him comfort for all the evil which the Lord had sent on him; and they all gave him a bit of money and a gold ring.
And the Lord's blessing was greater on the end of Job's life than on its start: and so he came to have fourteen thousand sheep and goats, and six thousand camels, and two thousand oxen, and a thousand she-asses.
And he had seven sons and three daughters.
And he gave the first the name of Jemimah, the second Keziah, and the third Keren-happuch;
And there were no women so beautiful as the daughters of Job in all the earth: and their father gave them a heritage among their brothers.
And after this Job had a hundred and forty years of life, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, even four generations.
And Job came to his end, old and full of days.
