After these things the word of Jehovah came to Abram in a  vision, saying, Fear not, Abram; I am thy shield, thy exceeding  great reward.
And Abram said, Lord Jehovah, what wilt thou give me?  seeing I go childless, and the steward of my house is this  Eliezer of Damascus.
And Abram said, Lo, to me thou hast given no seed, and  behold, a son of my house will be mine heir.
And behold, the word of Jehovah \came\ to him, saying, This  shall not be thine heir, but he that will come forth out of thy  body shall be thine heir.
And he led him out, and said, Look now toward the heavens,  and number the stars, if thou be able to number them. And he  said to him, So shall thy seed be!
And he believed Jehovah; and he reckoned it to him \as\  righteousness.
And he said to him, I am Jehovah who brought thee out of Ur  of the Chaldeans, to give thee this land to possess it.
And he said, Lord Jehovah, how shall I know that I shall  possess it?
And he said to him, Take me a heifer of three years old,  and a she-goat of three years old, and a ram of three years  old, and a turtle-dove, and a young pigeon.
And he took all these, and divided them in the midst, and  laid the half of each opposite its fellow; but the birds he did  not divide.
And the birds of prey came down on the carcases; and Abram  scared them away.
And as the sun was just going down, a deep sleep fell upon  Abram; and behold, a horror, a great darkness, fell upon him.
And he said to Abram, Know assuredly that thy seed will be  a sojourner in a land \that is\ not theirs, and they shall  serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years.
But also that nation which they shall serve I will judge;  and afterwards they shall come out with great property.
And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be  buried in a good old age.
And \in the\ fourth generation they shall come hither  again; for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.
And it came to pass when the sun had gone down, and it was  dark, that behold, there was a smoking furnace, and a flame of  fire which passed between those pieces.
On the same day Jehovah made a covenant with Abram,  saying, Unto thy seed I give this land, from the river of Egypt  to the great river, the river Euphrates;
the Kenites, and the Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites,
and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Rephaim,
and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites,  and the Jebusites.
