And Abraham took another wife named Keturah.
And she bore him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and  Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
And Jokshan begot Sheba and Dedan; and the sons of Dedan  were the Asshurim, and the Letushim, and the Leummim.
And the sons of Midian were Ephah, and Epher, and Enoch,  and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were sons of Keturah.
And Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac.
And to the sons of the concubines that Abraham had, Abraham  gave gifts, and, while he yet lived, sent them away from Isaac  his son, eastward to the east country.
And these are the days of the years of Abraham`s life which  he lived: a hundred and seventy-five years.
And Abraham expired and died in a good old age, old and  full \of days\; and was gathered to his peoples.
And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of  Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite,  which was opposite to Mamre --
the field that Abraham had purchased of the sons of Heth:  there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.
And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God  blessed his son Isaac. And Isaac dwelt at Beer-lahai-roi.
And these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham`s son,  whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah`s bondwoman, bore to Abraham.
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael by their  names according to their generations: Nebaioth, the firstborn  of Ishmael; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
Hadad and Tema, Jetur, Naphish and Kedmah.
These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names,  in their hamlets and their encampments -- twelve princes of  their peoples.
And these are the years of the life of Ishmael: a hundred  and thirty-seven years; and he expired and died, and was  gathered to his peoples.
And they dwelt from Havilah to Shur, which is opposite to  Egypt, as one goes towards Assyria. He settled before the face  of all his brethren.
And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham`s son.  Abraham begot Isaac.
And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebecca as  wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padan-Aram, the  sister of Laban the Syrian.
And Isaac entreated Jehovah for his wife, because she was  barren; and Jehovah was entreated of him, and Rebecca his wife  conceived.
And the children struggled together within her; and she  said, If \it be\ so, why am I thus? And she went to inquire of  Jehovah.
And Jehovah said to her, Two nations are in thy womb, And  two peoples shall be separated from thy bowels; And one people  shall be stronger than the other people, And the elder shall  serve the younger.
And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold,  there were twins in her womb.
And the first came out red -- all over like a hairy  garment; and they called his name Esau.
And after that came his brother out; and his hand took  hold of Esau`s heel; and his name was called Jacob. And Isaac  was sixty years old when they were born.
And the boys grew, and Esau became a man skilled in  hunting, a man of the field; and Jacob was a homely man,  dwelling in tents.
And Isaac loved Esau, because venison was to his taste;  and Rebecca loved Jacob.
And Jacob had cooked a dish; and Esau came from the field,  and he was faint.
And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with the red  -- the red thing there, for I am faint. Therefore was his name  called Edom.
And Jacob said, Sell me now thy birthright.
And Esau said, Behold, I am going to die, and of what use  can the birthright be to me?
And Jacob said, Swear unto me now. And he swore unto him,  and sold his birthright to Jacob.
And Jacob gave Esau bread and the dish of lentils; and he  ate and drank, and rose up and went away. Thus Esau despised  the birthright.
