And it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, that  there was a famine in the land. And a certain man went from  Bethlehem-Judah, to sojourn in the country of Moab, he, and his  wife, and his two sons.
And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his  wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons Mahlon and Chilion,  Ephrathites of Bethlehem-Judah. And they came into the country  of Moab, and continued there.
And Elimelech Naomi`s husband died; and she was left, and  her two sons.
And they took them Moabitish wives; the name of the one was  Orpah, and the name of the second Ruth: and they abode there  about ten years.
And Mahlon and Chilion died also, both of them; and the  woman was left of her two children and of her husband.
And she arose, she and her daughters-in-law, and returned  from the fields of Moab; for she had heard in the fields of  Moab how that Jehovah had visited his people to give them  bread.
Wherefore she went forth out of the place where she had  been, and her two daughters-in-law with her; and they went on  the way to return to the land of Judah.
And Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, Go, return each  to her mother`s house. Jehovah deal kindly with you, as ye have  dealt with the dead and with me.
Jehovah grant you that ye may find rest, each in the house  of her husband. And she kissed them; and they lifted up their  voice and wept.
And they said to her, We will certainly return with thee to  thy people.
And Naomi said, Return, my daughters: why will ye go with  me? Are there yet sons in my womb, that they could be your  husbands?
Return, my daughters, go; for I am too old to have a  husband. If I should say, I have hope, should I even have a  husband to-night, and should I also bear sons,
would ye wait on that account till they were grown? Would  ye stay on that account from having husbands? No, my daughters,  for I am in much more bitterness than you; for the hand of  Jehovah is gone out against me.
And they lifted up their voice and wept again. And Orpah  kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clave to her.
And she said, Behold, thy sister-in-law is gone back to her  people and to her gods: return after thy sister-in-law.
And Ruth said, Do not intreat me to leave thee, to return  from \following\ after thee; for whither thou goest I will go,  and where thou lodgest I will lodge: thy people shall be my  people, and thy God my God;
where thou diest will I die, and there will I be buried.  Jehovah do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part me  and thee!
And when she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with  her, she left off speaking to her.
And they two went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came  to pass, when they came to Bethlehem, that all the city was  moved about them, and the \women\ said, Is this Naomi?
And she said to them, Call me not Naomi -- call me Mara;  for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me.
I went out full, and Jehovah has brought me home again  empty. Why do ye call me Naomi, seeing Jehovah has brought me  low, and the Almighty has afflicted me?
So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her  daughter-in-law, with her, who returned out of the fields of  Moab; and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of the  barley-harvest.
