And they came to the other side of the sea, to the country  of the Gadarenes.
And immediately on his going out of the ship there met him  out of the tombs a man possessed by an unclean spirit,
who had his dwelling in the tombs; and no one was able to  bind him, not even with chains;
because he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and  the chains had been torn asunder by him, and the fetters were  shattered; and no one was able to subdue him.
And continually night and day, in the tombs and in the  mountains, he was crying and cutting himself with stones.
But seeing Jesus from afar off, he ran and did him homage,
and crying with a loud voice he says, What have I to do with  thee, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure thee by God,  torment me not.
For he said to him, Come forth, unclean spirit, out of the  man.
And he asked him, What is thy name? And he says to him,  Legion is my name, because we are many.
And he besought him much that he would not send them away  out of the country.
Now there was there just at the mountain a great herd of  swine feeding;
and they besought him, saying, Send us into the swine that  we may enter into them.
And Jesus \immediately\ allowed them. And the unclean  spirits going out entered into the swine, and the herd rushed  down the steep slope, into the sea (about two thousand), and  were choked in the sea.
And those that were feeding them fled and reported it in  the city and in the country. And they went out to see what it  was that had taken place.
And they come to Jesus, and they see the possessed of  demons sitting \and\ clothed and sensible, \him\ that had had  the legion: and they were afraid.
And they that had seen \it\ related to them how it had  happened to the \man\ possessed by demons, and concerning the  swine.
And they began to beg him to depart from their coasts.
And as he went on board ship, the man that had been  possessed by demons besought him that he might be with him.
And he suffered him not, but says to him, Go to thine home  to thine own people, and tell them how great things the Lord  has done for thee, and has had mercy on thee.
And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how  great things Jesus had done for him; and all wondered.
And Jesus having passed over in the ship again to the other  side, a great crowd gathered to him; and he was by the sea.
And \behold\ there comes one of the rulers of the  synagogue, by name Jairus, and seeing him, falls down at his  feet;
and he besought him much, saying, My little daughter is at  extremity; \I pray\ that thou shouldest come and lay thy hands  upon her so that she may be healed, and may live.
And he went with him, and a large crowd followed him and  pressed on him.
And a certain woman who had had a flux of blood twelve  years,
and had suffered much under many physicians, and had spent  everything she had and had found no advantage from it, but had  rather got worse,
having heard concerning Jesus, came in the crowd behind and  touched his clothes;
for she said, If I shall touch but his clothes I shall be  healed.
And immediately her fountain of blood was dried up, and she  knew in her body that she was cured from the scourge.
And immediately Jesus, knowing in himself the power that  had gone out of him, turning round in the crowd said, Who has  touched my clothes?
And his disciples said to him, Thou seest the crowd  pressing on thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?
And he looked round about to see her who had done this.
But the woman, frightened and trembling, knowing what had  taken place in her, came and fell down before him, and told him  all the truth.
And he said to her, Daughter, thy faith has healed thee; go  in peace, and be well of thy scourge.
While he was yet speaking, they come from the ruler of the  synagogue`s \house\, saying, Thy daughter has died, why  troublest thou the teacher any further?
But Jesus \immediately\, having heard the word spoken, says  to the ruler of the synagogue, Fear not; only believe.
And he suffered no one to accompany him save Peter and  James, and John the brother of James.
And he comes to the house of the ruler of the synagogue,  and sees the tumult, and people weeping and wailing greatly.
And entering in he says to them, Why do ye make a tumult  and weep? the child has not died, but sleeps.
And they derided him. But he, having put \them\ all out,  takes with \him\ the father of the child, and the mother, and  those that were with him, and enters in where the child was  lying.
And having laid hold of the hand of the child, he says to  her, Talitha koumi, which is, interpreted, Damsel, I say to  thee, Arise.
And immediately the damsel arose and walked, for she was  twelve years old. And they were astonished with great  astonishment.
And he charged them much that no one should know this; and  he desired that \something\ should be given her to eat.
