A false balance is an abomination to Jehovah; But a just weight is his delight.
When pride cometh, then cometh shame; But with the lowly is wisdom.
The integrity of the upright shall guide them; But the perverseness of the treacherous shall destroy them.
Riches profit not in the day of wrath; But righteousness delivereth from death.
The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way; But the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them; But the treacherous shall be taken in their own iniquity.
When a wicked man dieth, \his\ expectation shall perish; And the hope of iniquity perisheth.
The righteous is delivered out of trouble, And the wicked cometh in his stead.
With his mouth the godless man destroyeth his neighbor; But through knowledge shall the righteous be delivered.
When it goeth well with the righteous, the city       rejoiceth; And when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted; But it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
He that despiseth his neighbor is void of wisdom; But a man of understanding holdeth his peace.
He that goeth about as a tale-bearer revealeth secrets; But he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth a matter.
Where no wise guidance is, the people falleth; But in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it; But he that hateth suretyship is secure.
A gracious woman obtaineth honor; And violent men obtain riches.
The merciful man doeth good to his own soul; But he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh.
The wicked earneth deceitful wages; But he that soweth righteousness \hath\ a sure reward.
He that is stedfast in righteousness \shall attain\ unto       life; And he that pursueth evil \doeth it\ to his own death.
They that are perverse in heart are an abomination to       Jehovah; But such as are perfect in \their\ way are his delight.
\Though\ hand \join\ in hand, the evil man shall not be       unpunished; But the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
\As\ a ring of gold in a swine`s snout, \So is\ a fair woman that is without discretion.
The desire of the righteous is only good; \But\ the expectation of the wicked is wrath.
There is that scattereth, and increaseth yet more; And there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but \it       tendeth\ only to want.
The liberal soul shall be made fat; And he that watereth shall be watered also himself.
He that withholdeth grain, the people shall curse him; But blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.
He that diligently seeketh good seeketh favor; But he that searcheth after evil, it shall come unto him.
He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; But the righteous shall flourish as the green leaf.
He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind; And the foolish shall be servant to the wise of heart.
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; And he that is wise winneth souls.
Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: How much more the wicked and the sinner!
