Whoso loveth correction loveth knowledge; But he that hateth reproof is brutish.
A good man shall obtain favor of Jehovah; But a man of wicked devices will he condemn.
A man shall not be established by wickedness; But the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
A worthy woman is the crown of her husband; But she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are just; \But\ the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
The words of the wicked are of lying in wait for blood; But the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
The wicked are overthrown, and are not; But the house of the righteous shall stand.
A man shall be commended according to his wisdom; But he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised.
Better is he that is lightly esteemed, and hath a servant, Than he that honoreth himself, and lacketh bread.
A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast; But the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread; But he that followeth after vain \persons\ is void of       understanding.
The wicked desireth the net of evil men; But the root of the righteous yieldeth \fruit\.
In the transgression of the lips is a snare to the evil       man; But the righteous shall come out of trouble.
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his       mouth; And the doings of a man`s hands shall be rendered unto him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes; But he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsel.
A fool`s vexation is presently known; But a prudent man concealeth shame.
He that uttereth truth showeth forth righteousness; But a false witness, deceit.
There is that speaketh rashly like the piercings of a       sword; But the tongue of the wise is health.
The lip of truth shall be established for ever; But a lying tongue is but for a moment.
Deceit is in the heart of them that devise evil; But to the counsellors of peace is joy.
There shall no mischief happen to the righteous; But the wicked shall be filled with evil.
Lying lips are an abomination to Jehovah; But they that deal truly are his delight.
A prudent man concealeth knowledge; But the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness.
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule; But the slothful shall be put under taskwork.
Heaviness in the heart of a man maketh it stoop; But a good word maketh it glad.
The righteous is a guide to his neighbor; But the way of the wicked causeth them to err.
The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in       hunting; But the precious substance of men \is to\ the diligent.
In the way of righteousness is life; And in the pathway thereof there is no death.
