As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, So honor is not seemly for a fool.
As the sparrow in her wandering, as the swallow in her       flying, So the curse that is causeless alighteth not.
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, And a rod for the back of fools.
Answer not a fool according to his folly, Lest thou also be like unto him.
Answer a fool according to his folly, Lest he be wise in his own conceit.
He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool Cutteth off \his own\ feet, \and\ drinketh in damage.
The legs of the lame hang loose: So is a parable in the mouth of fools.
As one that bindeth a stone in a sling, So is he that giveth honor to a fool.
\As\ a thorn that goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, So is a parable in the mouth of fools.
\As\ an archer that woundeth all, So is he that hireth a fool and he that hireth them that pass by.
As a dog that returneth to his vomit, \So is\ a fool that repeateth his folly.
Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? There is more hope of a fool than of him.
The sluggard saith, There is a lion in the way; A lion is in the streets.
\As\ the door turneth upon its hinges, So doth the sluggard upon his bed.
The sluggard burieth his hand in the dish; It wearieth him to bring it again to his mouth.
The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit Than seven men that can render a reason.
He that passeth by, \and\ vexeth himself with strife       belonging not to him, Is \like\ one that taketh a dog by the ears.
As a madman who casteth firebrands, Arrows, and death,
So is the man that deceiveth his neighbor, And saith, Am not I in sport?
For lack of wood the fire goeth out; And where there is no whisperer, contention ceaseth.
\As\ coals are to hot embers, and wood to fire, So is a contentious man to inflame strife.
The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, And they go down into the innermost parts.
Fervent lips and a wicked heart Are \like\ an earthen vessel overlaid with silver dross.
He that hateth dissembleth with his lips; But he layeth up deceit within him:
When he speaketh fair, believe him not; For there are seven abominations in his heart:
Though \his\ hatred cover itself with guile, His wickedness shall be openly showed before the assembly.
Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein; And he that rolleth a stone, it shall return upon him.
A lying tongue hateth those whom it hath wounded; And a flattering mouth worketh ruin.
