In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, came the  word of Jehovah unto Zechariah the prophet, the son of  Berechiah, the son of Iddo, saying,
Jehovah hath been very wroth with your fathers.
And thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts:  Return unto me, saith Jehovah of hosts, and I will return unto  you, saith Jehovah of hosts.
Be ye not as your fathers, unto whom the former prophets  cried, saying, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Turn ye now from  your evil ways, and from your evil doings; but they did not  hearken nor attend unto me, saith Jehovah.
Your fathers, where are they? and the prophets, do they live  for ever?
But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants  the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers? And they  turned and said, Like as Jehovah of hosts thought to do unto  us, according to our ways and according to our doings, so hath  he dealt with us.
Upon the four and twentieth day of the eleventh month, which  is the month Shebat, in the second year of Darius, came the  word of Jehovah unto Zechariah the prophet, the son of  Berechiah, the son of Iddo, saying,
I saw by night, and behold, a man riding upon a red horse,  and he stood among the myrtle-trees that were in the low  valley; and behind him were red, bay, and white horses.
And I said, My lord, what are these? And the angel that  talked with me said unto me, I will shew thee what these are.
And the man that stood among the myrtle-trees answered and  said, These are they whom Jehovah hath sent to walk to and fro  through the earth.
And they answered the angel of Jehovah that stood among the  myrtle-trees, and said, We have walked to and fro through the  earth, and behold, all the earth sitteth still and is at rest.
And the angel of Jehovah answered and said, Jehovah of  hosts, how long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusalem and on  the cities of Judah, against which thou hast had indignation  these seventy years?
And Jehovah answered the angel that talked with me good  words, comforting words.
And the angel that talked with me said unto me, Cry,  saying, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I am jealous for Jerusalem  and for Zion with a great jealousy,
and I am wroth exceedingly with the nations that are at  ease; for I was but a little wroth, and they helped forward the  affliction.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah: I am returned to Jerusalem  with mercies: my house shall be built in it, saith Jehovah of  hosts, and the line shall be stretched forth upon Jerusalem.
Cry further, saying, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: My cities  shall yet overflow with prosperity, and Jehovah shall yet  comfort Zion, and shall yet choose Jerusalem.
And I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and behold four horns.
And I said unto the angel that talked with me, What are  these? And he said to me, These are the horns which have  scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.
And Jehovah shewed me four craftsmen.
And I said, What come these to do? And he spoke, saying,  Those are the horns which scattered Judah, so that no man  lifted up his head; but these are come to affright them, to  cast out the horns of the nations, which lifted up the horn  against the land of Judah to scatter it.
