Ask of Jehovah rain in the time of the latter rain; Jehovah  will make lightnings, and he will give them showers of rain, to  every one grass in the field.
For the teraphim have spoken vanity, and the diviners have  seen a lie, and have told false dreams: they comfort in vain.  Therefore they have gone away as a flock, they are in distress,  because there is no shepherd.
Mine anger is kindled against the shepherds, and I will  punish the he-goats; for Jehovah of hosts visiteth his flock,  the house of Judah, and maketh them as his majestic horse in  the battle.
From him shall come forth the corner-stone, from him the  nail, from him the battle bow, from him every exactor together.
And they shall be as mighty men, treading down the mire of  the streets in the battle; and they shall fight, for Jehovah is  with them, and the riders on horses shall be put to shame.
And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save  the house of Joseph, and I will bring them back again; for I  will have mercy upon them; and they shall be as though I had  not cast them off: for I am Jehovah their God, and I will  answer them.
And \they of\ Ephraim shall be like a mighty man, and their  hearts shall rejoice as through wine; and their children shall  see \it\, and rejoice; their heart shall be joyful in Jehovah.
I will hiss for them, and gather them; for I have redeemed  them: and they shall multiply as they used to multiply.
And I will sow them among the peoples, and they shall  remember me in far countries; and they shall live with their  children and return.
And I will bring them again out of the land of Egypt, and  gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the land  of Gilead and Lebanon; and \place\ shall not be found for them.
And he shall pass through the sea of affliction, and shall  smite the billows in the sea, and all the depths of the Nile  shall dry up; and the pride of Assyria shall be brought down,  and the sceptre of Egypt shall depart away.
And I will strengthen them in Jehovah; and they shall walk  in his name, saith Jehovah.
