And I lifted up mine eyes again, and saw, and behold, there  came four chariots out from between two mountains; and the  mountains were mountains of brass.
In the first chariot were red horses; and in the second  chariot black horses;
and in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth  chariot grisled, strong horses.
And I spoke and said unto the angel that talked with me,  What are these, my lord?
And the angel answered and said unto me, These are the four  spirits of the heavens, which go forth from standing before the  Lord of all the earth.
That in which are the black horses goeth forth into the  north country; and the white go forth after them; and the  grisled go forth towards the south country;
and the strong go forth, and seek to go that they may walk  to and fro through the earth. And he said, Go, walk to and fro  through the earth. And they walked to and fro through the  earth.
And he cried unto me, and spoke unto me, saying, See, these  that go forth towards the north country have quieted my spirit  in the north country.
And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,
Take \gifts\ of them of the captivity, of Heldai, of  Tobijah, and of Jedaiah, and come thou the same day, and enter  into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, whither they are  come from Babylon;
yea, take silver and gold, and make crowns, and set \them\  upon the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest;
and speak unto him, saying, Thus speaketh Jehovah of hosts,  saying, Behold a man whose name is \the\ Branch; and he shall  grow up from his own place, and he shall build the temple of  Jehovah:
even he shall build the temple of Jehovah; and he shall  bear the glory, and shall sit and rule upon his throne; and he  shall be a priest upon his throne; and the counsel of peace  shall be between them both.
And the crowns shall be for Helem, and for Tobijah, and for  Jedaiah, and for Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in  the temple of Jehovah.
And they that are far off shall come and build at the  temple of Jehovah: and ye shall know that Jehovah of hosts hath  sent me unto you. And \this\ shall come to pass, if ye will  diligently hearken to the voice of Jehovah your God.
