Give praise to Lord, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.
Let Israel now say that he is good: that his mercy endureth for ever.
Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.
Let them that fear the Lord now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.
In my trouble I called upon the Lord: and the Lord heard me, and enlarged me.
The Lord is my helper, I will not fear what man can do unto me.
The Lord is my helper: and I will look over my enemies.
It is good to confide in the Lord, rather than to have confidence in man.
It is good to trust in the Lord, rather than to trust in princes.
All nations compassed me about; and in the name of the Lord I have been revenged on them.
Surrounding me they compassed me about: and in the name of the Lord I have been revenged on them.
They surrounded me like bees, and they burned like fire among thorns: and in the name of the Lord I was revenged on them
Being pushed I was overturned that I might fall: but the Lord supported me.
The Lord is my strength and my praise: and he is become my salvation.
The voice of rejoicing and of salvation is in the tabernacles of the just.
The right hand of the Lord hath wrought strength: the right hand of the Lord hath exulted me: the right hand of the Lord hath wrought strength.
I shall not die, but live: and shall declare the works of the Lord.
The Lord chastising hath chastised me: but he hath not delivered me over to death.
Open ye to me the gates of justice: I will go into them, and give praise to the Lord.
This is the gate of the Lord, the just shall enter into it.
I will give glory to thee because thou hast heard me: and art become my salvation.
The stone which the builders rejected; the same is become the head of the corner.
This is the Lord's doing: and it is wonderful in our eyes.
This is the day which the Lord hath made: let us be glad and rejoice therein.
O Lord, save me: O Lord, give good success.
Blessed be he that cometh in the name Lord. We have blessed you out of the house of the Lord.
The Lord is God, and he hath shone upon us. Appoint a solemn day, with shady boughs, even to the horn of the alter.
Thou art my God, and I will praise thee: thou art my God, and I will exalt thee. I will praise thee, because thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation.
O praise ye the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.
