For David himself. <BR>Judge thou, O Lord, them that wrong me : overthrow them that fight against me.
Take hold of arms and shield : and rise up to help me.
Bring out the sword, and shut up the way against them that persecute me : say to my soul : I am thy salvation.
Let them be confounded and ashamed that seek after my soul. Let them be turned back and be confounded that devise against me.
Let them become as dust before the wind : and let the angel of the Lord straiten them.
Let their way become dark and slippery; and let the angel of the Lord pursue them.
For without cause they have hidden their net for me unto destruction : without cause they have upbraided my soul.
Let the snare which he knoweth not come upon him : and let the net which he hath hidden catch him : and let the net which he hath hidden catch him : and into that very snare let them fall.
But my soul shall rejoice in the Lord; and shall be delighted in his salvation.
All my bones shall say : Lord, who is like to thee? Who deliverest the poor from the hand of them that are stronger than he; the needy and the poor from them that strip him.
Unjust witnesses rising up have asked me things I knew not.
They repaid me evil for good : to the depriving me of my soul.
But as for me, when they were troublesome to me, I was clothed with haircloth. I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer shall be turned into my bosom.
As a neighbour and as an own brother, so did I please : as one mourning and sorrowful so was I humbled.
But they rejoiced against me, and came together : scourges were gathered together upon me, and I knew not.
They were separated, and repented not : they tempted me, they scoffed at me with scorn : they gnashed upon me with their teeth.
Lord, when wilt thou look upon me? rescue thou soul from their malice : my only one from the lions.
I will give thanks to thee in a great church; I will praise thee in a strong people.
Let not them that are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me : who have hated me without cause, and wink with the eyes.
For they spoke indeed peaceably to me; and speaking in the anger of the earth they devised guile.
And they opened their mouth wide against me; they said : Well done, well done, our eyes have seen it.
Thou hast seen, O Lord, be not thou silent : O Lord, depart not from me.
Arise, and be attentive to my judgment : to my cause, my God, and my Lord.
Judge me, O Lord my God according to thy justice, and let them not rejoice over me.
Let them not say in their hearts : It is well, it is well, to our mind : neither let them say : We have swallowed him up.
Let them blush : and be ashamed together, who rejoice at my evils. Let them be clothed with confusion and shame, who speak great things against me.
Let them rejoice and be glad, who are well pleased with my justice, and let them say always : The Lord be magnified, who delights in the peace of his servant.
Any my tongue shall meditate thy justice, thy praise all the day long.
