A psalm for Asaph. <BR>The God of gods, the Lord hath spoken: and he hath called the earth. From the rising of the sun, to the going down thereof:
out of Sion the loveliness of his beauty.
God shall come manifestly: our God shall come, and shall not keep silence. A fire shall burn before him: and a mighty tempest shall be round about him.
He shall call heaven from above, and the earth, to judge his people.
Gather ye together his saints to him: who set his covenant before sacrifices.
And the heavens shall declare his justice: for God is judge.
Hear, O my people, and I will speak: O Israel, and I will testify to thee: I am God, thy God.
I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices: and thy burnt offerings are always in my sight.
I will not take calves out of thy house: nor he goats out of thy flocks.
For all the beasts of the woods are mine: the cattle on the hills, and the oxen.
I know all the fowls of the air: and with me is the beauty of the field.
If I should be hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is mine, and the fulness thereof.
Shall I eat the flesh of bullocks? or shall I drink the blood of goats?
Offer to God the sacrifice of praise: and pay thy vows to the most High.
And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.
But to the sinner God hath said: Why dost thou declare my justices, and take my covenant in thy mouth ?
Seeing thou hast hated discipline: and hast cast my words behind thee.
If thou didst see a thief thou didst run with him: and with adulterers thou hast been a partaker.
Thy mouth hath abounded with evil, and thy tongue framed deceits.
Sitting thou didst speak against thy brother, and didst lay a scandal against thy mother's son:
these things hast thou done, and I was silent. Thou thoughtest unjustly that I should be like to thee: but I will reprove thee, and set before thy face.
Understand these things, you that forget God; lest he snatch you away, and there be none to deliver you.
The sacrifice of praise shall glorify me: and there is the way by which I will shew him the salvation of God.
