Unto the end, for the hidden things of the Son. A psalm for David.
I will give praise to thee, O Lord, with my whole heart: I will relate all thy wonders.
I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing to thy name, O thou most high.
When my enemy shall be turned back: they shall be weakened and perish before thy face.
For thou hast maintained my judgment and my cause: thou hast sat on the throne, who judgest justice.
Thou hast rebuked the Gentiles, and the wicked one hath perished: thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever.
The swords of the enemy have failed unto the end: and their cities thou hast destroyed. Their memory hath perished with a noise.
but the Lord remaineth for ever. He hath prepared his throne in judgment:
and he shall judge the world in equity, he shall judge the people in justice.
And the Lord is become a refuge for the poor: a helper in due time in tribulation.
And let them trust in thee who know thy name: for thou hast not forsaken them that seek thee, O Lord.
Sing ye to the Lord, who dwelleth in Sion: declare his ways among the Gentiles:
For requiring their blood he hath remembered the: he hath not forgotten the cry of the poor.
Have mercy on me, O Lord: see my humiliation which I suffer from my enemies.
Thou that liftest me up from the gates of death, that I may declare all thy praises in the gates of the daughter of Sion.
I will rejoice in thy salvation: the Gentiles have stuck fast in the destruction which they have prepared. Their foot hath been taken in the very snare which they hid.
The Lord shall be known when he executeth judgments: the sinner hath been caught in the works of his own hands.
The wicked shall be turned into hell, all the nations that forget God.
For the poor man shall not be forgotten to the end: the patience of the poor shall not perish for ever.
Arise, O Lord, let not man be strengthened: let the Gentiles be judged in thy sight.
Appoint, O Lord, a lawgiver over them: that the Gentiles may know themselves to be but men.
