I am come into my garden, my sister, \my\ spouse; I have  gathered my myrrh with my spice; I have eaten my honeycomb with  my honey; I have drunk my wine with my milk. Eat, O friends;  drink, yea, drink abundantly, beloved ones!
I slept, but my heart was awake. The voice of my beloved! he  knocketh: Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, mine  undefiled; For my head is filled with dew, My locks with the  drops of the night.
-- I have put off my tunic, how should I put it on? I have  washed my feet, how should I pollute them? --
My beloved put in his hand by the hole \of the door\; And my  bowels yearned for him.
I rose up to open to my beloved; And my hands dropped with  myrrh, And my fingers with liquid myrrh, Upon the handles of  the lock.
I opened to my beloved; But my beloved had withdrawn  himself; he was gone: My soul went forth when he spoke. I  sought him, but I found him not; I called him, but he gave me  no answer.
The watchmen that went about the city found me; They smote  me, they wounded me; The keepers of the walls took away my veil  from me.
I charge you, daughters of Jerusalem, If ye find my beloved,  ... What will ye tell him? -- That I am sick of love.
What is thy beloved more than \another\ beloved, Thou  fairest among women? What is thy beloved more than \another\  beloved, That thou dost so charge us?
My beloved is white and ruddy, The chiefest among ten  thousand.
His head is \as\ the finest gold; His locks are flowing,  black as the raven;
His eyes are like doves by the water-brooks, Washed with  milk, fitly set;
His cheeks are as a bed of spices, raised beds of sweet  plants; His lips lilies, dropping liquid myrrh.
His hands gold rings, set with the chrysolite; His belly is  bright ivory, overlaid \with\ sapphires;
His legs, pillars of marble, set upon bases of fine gold:  His bearing as Lebanon, excellent as the cedars;
His mouth is most sweet: Yea, he is altogether lovely. This  is my beloved, yea, this is my friend, O daughters of  Jerusalem.
