For this reason we ought to pay the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, for fear we should  drift away from them.
For if the message delivered through angels proved to be true, and every transgression and act of disobedience met with just retribution,
how shall *we* escape  if we are indifferent to a salvation as great as that now offered to us? This, after having first of all been announced by the Lord Himself, had its truth made sure to us by those who heard Him,
while God corroborated their testimony by signs and marvels and various miracles, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed in accordance with His own will.
It is not to angels that God has assigned the sovereignty of that coming  world, of which we speak.
But,  as we know, a writer has solemnly said, "How poor a creature is man, and yet Thou dost remember him, and a son of man, and yet Thou dost come to him!
Thou hast made him only  a little inferior to the angels; with glory and honour Thou hast crowned him,  and hast set him to govern the works of Thy hands.
Thou hast put everything in subjection under his feet." For this subjecting of the universe to man implies the leaving nothing not subject to him. But we do not as yet see the universe subject to him.
But Jesus--who was made a little inferior to the angels in order that  through God's grace He might taste death for every human being--we already see wearing a crown of glory and honour because of His having suffered death.
For it was fitting that He for whom, and through whom, all things exist, after He had brought  many sons to glory, should perfect by suffering the Prince Leader who had saved them.
For both He who sanctifies and those whom He is sanctifying have all one Father; and for this reason He is not ashamed to speak of them as His brothers;
as when He says: "I will proclaim Thy name to My brothers:  in the midst of the congregation I will hymn Thy praises;"
and again, "As for Me, I will be one whose trust reposes in God;" and again, "Here am I, and here are the children God has given Me."
Since then the children referred to are all alike sharers in  perishable human nature, He Himself also, in the same way, took on Him a share of it, in order that through death He might render powerless him who had authority over death, that is, the Devil,
and might set at liberty all those who through fear of death had been subject to lifelong slavery.
For assuredly it is not to angels that He is continually reaching a helping hand, but it is to the descendants of Abraham.
And for this purpose it was necessary that in all respects He should be made to resemble His brothers, so that He might become a compassionate and faithful High Priest in things relating to God, in order to atone for the sins of the people.
For inasmuch as He has Himself felt the pain of  temptation and trial, He is also able instantly to help those who are tempted and tried.
