Then I looked, and I saw the Lamb standing  upon Mount Zion, and with Him  144,000 people, having His  name and His Father's name written on their foreheads.
And I heard  music from Heaven which resembled the  sound of many waters and the  roar of loud thunder; and the  music which I heard was like that of harpists playing upon their harps.
And they were singing what seemed to be a new song, in front of the throne and in the presence of the four living creatures and the Elders; and no one was able to learn that song except the 144,000 people who had been redeemed out of the world.
These are those who had not defiled themselves with women: they are as pure as virgins. They follow the Lamb  wherever He goes. They have been redeemed from among men, as firstfruits to God and to the Lamb.
And no lie has ever been found upon their lips: they are faultless.
And I saw another angel flying across the sky, carrying the Good News of the Ages to tell to every nation, tribe, language and people, among  those who live on the  earth.
He said in a loud voice, "Fear God and give Him glory, because the time of His judgment has come; and worship Him who made sky and earth, the sea and the water-springs."
And another, a second angel, followed, exclaiming,  "Great Babylon  has fallen, has fallen--she who made all the nations drink the wine of the anger provoked by her fornication."
And another, a third angel, followed them, exclaiming in a loud voice, "If any one worships the Wild Beast and his statue, and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,
he shall drink the wine of God's anger which stands  ready, undiluted, in the cup of His fury, and he shall be tormented with fire and sulphur in the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb.
And the smoke of their  torment goes up until the Ages of the Ages; and the worshipers of the Wild Beast and his statue have no rest day or night, nor has any one who receives the mark of his name.
Here is  an opportunity for endurance on the part of God's people, who carefully keep His commandments and the faith of Jesus!"
And I heard a voice speaking from Heaven. It said, "Write as follows: "`Blessed are the dead  who die in the Lord from this time onward. Yes, says the Spirit,  let them rest from their sorrowful labours; for what they have done goes with them.'"
Then I looked, and a white cloud appeared, and sitting on the cloud was some One resembling the Son of Man, having a wreath of gold upon His head and in His hand a sharp sickle.
And another, an angel, came out of the sanctuary, calling in a loud voice to Him who sat on the cloud, and saying,  "Use your sickle and reap the harvest, for the hour for reaping it has come: the harvest of the earth is over-ripe."
Then He who sat on the cloud  flung His sickle on the earth, and the earth had its harvest reaped.
And another angel came out from the sanctuary in Heaven, and he too carried a sharp sickle.
And another angel came out from the altar--he who had power over fire--and he spoke in a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, "Use your sharp sickle, and gather the bunches from the vine of the earth, for its grapes are now quite ripe."
And the angel  flung his sickle down to the earth, and reaped the vine of the earth and threw the grapes into the great winepress of God's anger.
And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and out of it came blood reaching the horses' bridles for a distance of  200 miles.
