Then I heard a loud voice from the sanctuary say to the seven angels, "Go and pour on to the  earth the seven bowls of the anger of God."
So the first angel went away and poured his bowl on to the earth; and  it brought  a bad and painful sore upon the men who had on them the mark of the Wild Beast and worshipped his statue.
The second angel poured his bowl into  the sea, and it became blood, like a dead man's blood, and every living creature in the sea died.
The third angel poured his bowl into  the rivers and springs of water, and they became blood.
And I heard the angel of the waters say, "Righteous art Thou, who art and wast,  the holy One, because Thou hast thus taken vengeance.
For they poured out the blood of Thy people and of the Prophets, and in return Thou hast given them blood to drink. And this they deserved."
And I heard a voice from the altar say, "Even so, O Lord God, the Ruler of all, true and righteous are Thy judgments."
Then the fourth angel poured his bowl on to  the sun, and power was given to it to scorch men with  fire.
And the men were severely burned; and yet they spoke evil of God who had power over the plagues, and they did not repent so as to give Him glory.
The fifth angel poured his bowl on to  the throne of the Wild Beast; and his kingdom became darkened. People gnawed their tongues because of the pain,
and they spoke evil of the God in Heaven because of their pains and their sores, and did not repent of  their misconduct.
The sixth angel poured his bowl into that great river, the Euphrates; and its stream was dried up in order  to clear the way for the kings who are to come from the east.
Then I saw three foul spirits, resembling frogs, issue from the mouth of the Dragon, from the mouth of the Wild Beast, and from the mouth of  the false Prophet.
For they are the spirits of demons working marvels--spirits that go out to control the kings of the whole earth, to assemble them for the battle which is to take place on  the great day of God, the Ruler of all.
("I am coming like a thief. Blessed is the man who keeps awake and guards his raiment for fear he walk about  ill-clad, and his uncomeliness become manifest.")
And assemble them they did at the place called in Hebrew  `Har-Magedon.'
Then the seventh angel poured his bowl into  the air; and a loud voice came out of the sanctuary from the throne, saying,  "Everything is now ready."
Flashes of lightning followed, and voices, and peals of thunder, and an earthquake more dreadful than there had ever been since there was a man upon the earth--so terrible was it, and so great!
The great city was split into  three parts; the cities of the nations fell; and  great Babylon came into remembrance before God, for Him to make her drink from the wine-cup of His fierce anger.
Every island fled away, and there was not a mountain anywhere to be seen.
And heavy hail,  that seemed to be a talent in weight, fell from the sky upon the people; and they spoke evil of God on account of the plague of the hail--because the plague of it was exceedingly severe.
