After this I seemed to hear the far-echoing voices of a great multitude in Heaven, who said,  "Hallelujah! The salvation and the glory and the power belong to our God.
True and just are His judgments, because He has judged the great Harlot who was corrupting the whole  earth with her fornication, and He has taken vengeance for the blood of His bondservants which her hands have shed."
And a second time they said, "Hallelujah! For her smoke ascends until the Ages of the Ages."
And the twenty-four Elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God who sits upon the throne. "Even so," they said; "Hallelujah!"
And from the throne there came a voice which said, "Praise our God, all you His bondservants--you who fear Him, both the small and the great."
And I seemed to hear the voices of a great multitude and the sound of many waters and of loud peals of thunder, which said, "Hallelujah! Because the Lord our God, the Ruler of all,  has become King.
Let us rejoice and triumph and give Him the glory; for the time for  the marriage of the Lamb has come, and His Bride has made herself ready."
And she was permitted to array herself in fine linen, shining and spotless; the fine linen being the  righteous actions of God's people.
And he said to me, "Write as follows: `Blessed are those who receive an invitation to the  Marriage Supper of the Lamb.'" And he added, still addressing me, "These are truly the words of God."
Then I fell at his feet to worship him. But he exclaimed, "Oh, do not do that. I am a fellow bondservant of yours and a fellow bondservant of your brethren who have borne testimony to Jesus. Worship God." Testimony to Jesus is the spirit which underlies Prophecy.
Then I saw a door open in Heaven, and  a white horse appeared. Its rider was named "Faithful and True" --being One who in righteousness acts as Judge, and makes war.
His eyes were  like a flame of fire, and on His head were many kingly crowns; and He has a name written upon Him which  no one but He Himself knows.
The outer garment in which He is clad has been dipped in blood and His name is  THE WORD OF GOD.
The armies in Heaven followed Him--mounted on white horses and clothed in fine linen, white and spotless.
From His mouth there comes a sharp sword with which He will smite the nations; and He will Himself be their Shepherd, ruling them with a scepter of iron; and it is His work to tread the winepress of the fierce anger of God, the Ruler of all.
And on His outer garment and on His thigh He has a name written, KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.
And I saw a single angel standing  in the full light of the sun, who cried in a loud voice to all the birds that flew across the sky, "Come and be present at God's great supper,
that you may feast on the flesh of kings and the flesh of generals and the flesh of mighty men, on the flesh of horses and their riders, and on the flesh of all mankind, whether they are free men or slaves, great men or small."
And I saw the Wild Beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, all assembled to make war,  once for all, against the Rider upon the horse and against His army. And the Wild Beast was captured, and with him the false Prophet
who had done the miracles in his presence with which he had led astray those who had received the mark of the Wild Beast, and those who worshipped his statue. Both of them were thrown alive into the Lake of fire that was all ablaze with sulphur.
But the rest were killed with the sword that came from the mouth of the Rider on the horse. And the birds all fed ravenously upon their flesh.
