Then he showed me the river of the Water of Life, bright as crystal, issuing from the throne of God and of the Lamb.
On either side of the river,  midway between it and the main street of the city, was  the Tree of Life. It produced twelve kinds of fruit, yielding a fresh crop month by month, and the leaves of the tree served as medicine for the nations.
"In future there will be no  curse," he said, "but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be  in that city. And His  servants will render Him holy service and will see His face,
and His  name will be on their foreheads.
And there will be no night there; and they have no need of lamplight or sunlight, for the Lord God will shine upon them, and they will be kings until the Ages of the Ages."
And he said to me, "These words are trustworthy and true; and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the Prophets, sent His angel to make known to His  servants the things which must soon happen.
`I am coming quickly.' Blessed is he who is mindful of the predictions contained in this book."
I John heard and saw these things; and when I had heard and seen them, I fell at the feet of the angel who was showing me them--to worship him.
But he said to me, "Oh, do not do that. I am a fellow bondservant of yours, and a fellow bondservant of your brethren the Prophets and of those who are mindful of the teachings of this book. Worship God."
"Make no secret," he added, "of the meaning of the predictions contained in this book; for the time for their fulfillment is now close at hand.
Let the dishonest man act dishonestly  still; let the filthy make himself filthy  still; let the righteous practise righteousness  still; and let the holy be made holy  still."
"I am coming quickly; and My reward is with Me, that I may requite every man in accordance with what his conduct has been.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
Blessed are those who  wash their robes clean, that they may have a right to the Tree of Life, and may go through the gates into the city.
The  unclean are shut out, and so are  all who practise magic, all fornicators, all murderers, and those who worship idols, and every one who loves falsehood and tells lies.
"I Jesus have sent My angel for him solemnly to declare these things to you among the Churches. I am the Root and the offspring of David, the bright  Morning Star.
The Spirit and the Bride say, `Come;' and whoever hears, let him say, `Come;' and let those who are thirsty come. Whoever will, let him take the Water of Life, without payment.
"I solemnly declare to every one who hears the words of the prophecy contained in this book, that if any one adds to those words, God will add to him the plagues spoken of in this book;
and that if any one  takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take from him his share in the Tree of Life and in the holy city--the things described in this book.
"He who solemnly declares all this says, "`Yes, I am coming quickly.'"  Amen. Come, Lord Jesus.
