And I saw a river of water of life, clear as glass, coming out of the high seat of God and of the Lamb,
In the middle of its street. And on this side of the river and on that was the tree of life, having twelve sorts of fruits, giving its fruit every month; and the leaves of the tree give life to the nations.
And there will be no more curse: and the high seat of God and of the Lamb will be there; and his servants will be worshipping him;
And they will see his face; and his name will be on their brows.
And there will be no more night; and they have no need of a light or of the shining of the sun; for the Lord God will give them light: and they will be ruling for ever and ever.
And he said to me, These words are certain and true: and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent his angel to make clear to his servants the things which are now to come about.
See, I come quickly. A blessing on him who keeps the words of this book of the prophet.
And I, John, am he who saw these things and to whose ears they came. And when I had seen and given ear, I went down on my face to give worship at the feet of the angel who made these things clear to me.
And he said to me, See you do it not; I am a brother-servant with you and with your brothers the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book: give worship to God.
And he said to me, Let not the words of this prophet's book be kept secret, because the time is near.
Let the evil man go on in his evil: and let the unclean be still unclean: and let the upright go on in his righteousness: and let the holy be holy still.
See, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to give to every man the outcome of his works.
I am the First and the Last, the start and the end.
A blessing on those whose robes are washed, so that they may have a right to the tree of life, and may go in by the doors into the town.
Outside are the dogs, and those who make use of evil powers, those who make themselves unclean, and the takers of life, and those who give worship to images, and everyone whose delight is in what is false.
I, Jesus, have sent my angel to give witness to you of these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright and morning star.
And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him who gives ear, say, Come. And let him who is in need come; and let everyone desiring it take of the water of life freely.
For I say to every man to whose ears have come the words of this prophet's book, If any man makes an addition to them, God will put on him the punishments which are in this book:
And if any man takes away from the words of this book, God will take away from him his part in the tree of life and the holy town, even the things which are in this book.
He who gives witness to these things says, Truly, I come quickly. Even so come, Lord Jesus.
