Therefore, my brethren dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved.
I beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same mind in the Lord.
And I entreat thee also, true yoke-fellow, help those women who labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellow-laborers, whose names are in the book of life.
Rejoice in the Lord always: and again I say, Rejoice.
Let your moderation be known to all men. The Lord is at hand.
Be anxious for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, will keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.
Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are honest, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report; if there is any virtue, and if there is any praise, think on these things.
Those things, which ye have both learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, do: and the God of peace will be with you.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again; wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity.
Not that I speak in respect of want: for I have learned, in whatever state I am, with that to be content.
I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound: every where and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need.
I can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth me.
Notwithstanding ye have done well, that ye did communicate with my affliction.
Now, ye Philippians, know also, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again to my necessity.
Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may abound to your account.
But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing to God.
But my God will supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus.
Now to God and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who are with me greet you.
All the saints salute you, chiefly they that are of Cesar's household.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
